Subject: enron mentions
enron jolt : investments , assets generate big loss - - - part of charge tied to 2 partnerships interests wall street
the wall street journal , 10 / 17 / 01
enron posts loss for quarter , citing one - time charges
the asian wall street journal , 10 / 17 / 01
enron reports $ 1 billion in charges and a loss
the new york times , 10 / 17 / 01
companies & finance the americas - enron tries to see bright side of $ 1 bn levy .
financial times ( u . k . edition ) , 10 / 17 / 01
observer - excuse me - avenue of the americas .
financial times ( u . k . edition ) , 10 / 17 / 01
world stock markets - financials lead wall street to modest gains .
financial times ( u . k . edition ) , 10 / 17 / 01
world stock markets - end of wall st surge leaves techs struggling .
financial times ( u . k . edition ) , 10 / 17 / 01
enron posts loss after write - downs
houston chronicle , 10 / 17 / 01
mark to market : a defiant spring in their steps
capital markets report , 10 / 17 / 01
lex column - enron lex column .
financial times ( u . k . edition ) , 10 / 17 / 01
internet tax ban extended
the washington post , 10 / 17 / 01
united states
the globe and mail , 10 / 17 / 01
enron corp . reiterated ` strong buy ' at first albany
bloomberg , 10 / 17 / 01
brazil energy rules deter investment as shortages choke economy
bloomberg , 10 / 17 / 01
former montana governor named u . s . envoy in lumber dispute
associated press newswires , 10 / 16 / 01
enron reports third - quarter loss due to investment writeoff
associated press newswires , 10 / 16 / 01
enron long - term debt ratings on review for possible downgrade - moody ' s
afx news , 10 / 16 / 01
enron - chmn . & ceo
cnnfn : market coverage - morning , 10 / 16 / 01
enron ceo - interview
fox news : your world
enron corp . chmn . & ceo - interview
cnbc / dow jones business video , 10 / 16 / 01
enron jolt : investments , assets generate big loss - - - part of charge tied to 2 partnerships interests wall street
by john emshwiller and rebecca smith
staff reporters of the wall street journal
10 / 17 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . yesterday took a $ 1 . 01 billion charge mostly connected with write - downs of soured investments , producing a $ 618 million third - quarter loss . the loss highlights the risom a pipeline com a particular slice raises anew vexing conflict - of - interest questions . the slice is connected with a pair of limited partnerships that until recently were run by enron ' s chief financial officer . the company said the charge connected with the partnerships is $ 35 million and involves the " early termination . . . of certain structured finance arrangements . "
two years ago , the chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow , entered into the unusual arrangement with his employer . with the approval of the board of enron , mr . fastow set up and ran the partnerships that stood to make him millions or more , according to partnership documents . while the company says that this arrangement was proper , some corporate - governance watchdogs have questioned whether a chief financial officer , who is responsible for overseeing the financial interests of the company , should have been involved in such a partnership that was , among other things , looking to purchase assets from enron .
the two partnerships , ljm cayman lp and the much larger ljm 2 co - investment lp , have engaged in billions of dollars of complex hedging transactions with enron involving company assets and millions of shares of enron stock . it isn ' t clear from enron filings with the securities and exchange commission what enron received in return for providing these assets and shares . in a number of transactions , notes receivable were provided by partnership - related entities .
mr . fastow ' s role as chief financial officer made him privy to internal asset analyses at enron . an offering memorandum for the ljm 2 partnership said that this dual role " should result in a steady flow of opportunities . . . to make investments at attractive prices . " mr . fastow would find his interests " aligned " with investors because the " economics of the partnership would have significant impact on the general partner ' s wealth , " according to this document .
in a written statement in response to questions , enron , based in houston , said " there never was any obligation for enron to do any transaction with ljm . enron and its board established special review and approval processes with its senior management and external audit and legal counsel to ensure that each transaction with the ljm partnership was fair , in the best interest of enron and its shareholders , and appropriately disclosed . "
mr . fastow , through an enron spokesman , declined to be interviewed .
in announcing the third - quarter loss , enron said the partnership - related write - offs were part of a larger $ 544 million charge related to the diminished value of investments in a retail - power business , broadband telecommunications and technology . in addition , there was also a $ 287 million write - off resulting from its investment in azurix corp . , a water company enron spun off and then repurchased . in all , enron posted a third - quarter loss of 84 cents a share , compared with a gain of 34 cents a share in the year - earlier period . revenue rose 59 % to $ 47 . 6 billion .
at 4 p . m . yesterday , enron ' s stock was up 67 cents a share to $ 33 . 84 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , but remains far below its 52 - week high of $ 84 . 88 . on monday , the day before the earnings announcement , enron stock dropped by about 7 % .
in an interview , enron ' s chairman and chief executive , kenneth lay , said the write - offs were designed as part of an effort to " find anything and everything that was a distraction and was causing a cloud over the company . "
the quarterly loss is the latest in a series of setbacks faced by enron recently after years of almost unbroken success . there have been mounting problems from expensive moves into the water and telecommunications businesses .
and there has been a steady stream of executive departures , most notably the surprise resignation in august of enron ' s president and chief executive , jeffrey skilling , who said he left for personal reasons and because of the fallen stock price .
the partnership arrangement involving mr . fastow , the highly regarded chief financial officer , first surfaced in an enron sec filing in 1999 , but only recently has it attracted wall street ' s concern . in late july , mr . fastow severed his relations with the partnerships , according to a company sec filing . company officials said that move was partly related to questions raised by analysts and large enron shareholders .
little about the inner workings of the ljm partnerships has been disclosed to date . private partnership documents reviewed by the wall street journal indicate that enron agreed to a partnership arrangement with potentially huge financial rewards for mr . fastow .
the ljm cayman partnership raised a relatively modest $ 16 million , according to the documents . the more ambitious ljm 2 aimed to raise at least $ 200 million , the documents show . among investors were credit suisse group ' s credit suisse first boston , wachovia corp . and general electric co . ' s general electric capital corp . the arkansas teachers fund committed $ 30 million , of which $ 7 . 4 million had been tapped by late last month . bill shirron , a fund manager there , said the ljm arrangement had " already returned $ 6 million to us . " it ' s been " a home run so far , " mr . shirron added .
according to the ljm 2 offering document , the general partner , made up of mr . fastow and at least one other enron employee , received a management fee of as much as 2 % annually of the total amounts invested . additionally , the general partner was eligible for profit participation that could produce millions of dollars more if the partnership met its performance goals over its projected 10 - year life . in exchange , the general partner was obliged to invest at least 1 % of the aggregate capital commitments .
in an interview earlier this year , mr . lay said the ljm arrangement didn ' t produce any conflicts of interest . such related - party transactions , involving top managers or directors , aren ' t unusual , he said . " almost all big companies have related - party transactions . "
typically , related - party transactions involve dealings with partly owned affiliates or a contract with a firm tied to one of the company ' s outside directors . it is rare for a top executive to be in a position where he could have conflicting fiduciary responsibilities . the ljm 2 offering document states that the responsibilities of mr . fastow and other partnership officials to enron could " from time to time conflict with fiduciary responsibilities owed to the partnership and its partners . "
some institutions approached as potential ljm investors demurred partly because of such potential conflicts .
enron has publicly stated that the partnership deals were aimed to help it hedge against fluctuating values for its growing portfolio of assets . in the past decade , enron has seen its asset base rocket to more than $ 100 billion . as a result of this rapid growth , enron has at times been strapped for capital and has sought ways to bring in outside investors to help bolster its balance sheet .
charles lemaistre , an outside enron director and president emeritus of the m . d . anderson cancer center at the university of texas , said he viewed the partnership arrangement partly as a way of keeping mr . fastow at enron . " we try to make sure that all executives at enron are sufficiently well - paid to meet what the market would offer , " he said .
enron ' s interest in retaining mr . fastow may have been heightened by an exodus of top managers who were cashing out large stock - option grants after the company ' s success in 1999 and 2000 . mr . fastow ' s yield from options for the 12 months through aug . 31 was $ 4 . 6 million , according to disclosure reports compiled by thomson financial . mr . lay netted about $ 70 million from exercising options during this period , while mr . skilling , the former president , realized nearly $ 100 million .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
international news
enron posts loss for quarter , citing one - time charges
dow jones newswires
10 / 17 / 2001
the asian wall street journal
2
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones $ 287 million related to so - called asset impairments recorded by azurix ; and $ 180 million for the restructuring of broadband services .
excluding items , enron , which is based in houston , said it earned $ 393 million , or 43 cents a share , helped by its core wholesale and retail energy businesses and natural gas pipelines . that figure matched a consensus estimate from analysts , according to thomson financial / first call .
revenue soared to $ 47 . 61 billion from $ 30 . 01 billion .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
enron reports $ 1 billion in charges and a loss
by kenneth n . gilpin
10 / 17 / 2001
the new york times
page 5 , column 1
c . 2001 new york times company
the enron corporation , the nation ' s leading wholesale electricity marketer and natural gas trader , posted a third - quarter loss yesterday because of more than $ 1 billion in one - time charges for various businesses .
the company reported a net loss of $ 618 million , or 84 cents a share , in contrast to net income of $ 292 million , or 34 cents a share , in the period a year earlier . excluding charges , enron said it earned $ 393 million , or 43 cents a share . revenue jumped 59 percent , to $ 47 . 6 billion , from $ 30 billion a year ago .
the charges , which total $ 1 . 01 billion , or $ 1 . 11 a share , included a $ 287 million write - down on azurix , the company ' s troubled water - management division , and $ 180 billion in restructuring charges at its broadband telecommunications operation .
but more than half the charges were related to various investment losses , mostly from enron ' s stake in the new power company , a retail electricity joint venture with aol time warner and i . b . m .
' ' after a thorough review of our businesses , we have decided to take these charges to clear away issues that have clouded the performance and earnings potential of our core energy businesses , ' ' kenneth l . lay , enron ' s chairman and chief executive , said in a statement .
even as its stock surged last year and into this year , analysts complained that the company had a complex web of businesses and lacked clarity in its financial reporting .
in the wake of the california energy crisis , the value of enron shares began a sharp retreat , and the focus on problems at some of its operations intensified .
on aug . 14 , jeffrey k . skilling abruptly resigned as president and chief executive after just six months on the job . the move forced mr . lay , who transformed the company from an intrastate pipeline company into an energy conglomerate , to resume operational control .
wall street had been expecting write - offs , and analysts said more could be coming . but the news yesterday had little effect on enron ' s shares , which rose 67 cents , to $ 33 . 84 . they are off 59 percent this year .
' ' they didn ' t telegraph exactly what they were going to do , or when or how , ' ' said david fleischer , an analyst at goldman , sachs . ' ' but for many quarters the topic has been how many billions are they going to write off ? now the question is , ' what ' s next ? ' ' '
ronald barone , an analyst at ubs warburg , said the write - offs were ' ' a step in the right direction . ' '
' ' investors can look at this with more confidence that problems are being faced and addressed , ' ' he said .
mr . barone and others said the company might have to make decisions at some point about troubled international assets , including its power plant in india as well as its broadband unit .
earlier this year , mr . skilling insisted that enron ' s broadband trading business was worth $ 35 billion . after the restructuring yesterday , enron has a $ 600 million investment in broadband .
' ' i don ' t think anyone knows what the broadband operation is worth , ' ' said todd shipman , an analyst at standard & poor ' s . ' ' it seems to me they don ' t think there is a big prospect of a short - term turnaround . they are putting the whole thing in cold storage . ' '
despite enron ' s potential , analysts said mr . lay faced a considerable task .
' ' management has lost credibility and have to reprove themselves , ' ' mr . fleischer at goldman , sachs said . ' ' they need to convince investors these earnings are real , that the company is for real and that growth will be realized . that has to be proven over time . ' '
the earnings report issued yesterday provides ' ' a little more breakdown , ' ' he added , ' ' but it will take more disclosure . ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies & finance the americas - enron tries to see bright side of $ 1 bn levy .
by julie earle .
10 / 17 / 2001
financial times ( u . k . edition )
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
companies & finance the americas - enron tries to see bright side of $ 1 bn levy - diversified industrials failed investments in telecommunications , energy and water take their toll .
enron , the us energy trader , yesterday attempted to reassure the market after it revealed a hefty $ 1 . 01 bn charge related to its failed investments in telecommunications , retail energy sales and water businesses .
the houston - based company outlined a recovery plan , including more asset sales , but the charge , along with a weaker - than - expected performance in europe and no sign of improvement in its broadband division overshadowed any good news .
some analysts , who had exerted pressure on the company to release detailed financial results , warned of more surprises at an analysts meeting in new york tomorrow .
moody ' s investors service placed enron ' s $ 13 bn of debt securities on review for downgrade . by midday in new york , the company ' s shares were 17 cents lower at $ 33 , continuing a 60 per cent share slide this year .
ken lay , the chairman who is back at the helm after the abrupt resignation of former chief executive jeff skilling in august , said he had three main concerns .
enron remains entangled in the fallout from the california energy crisis , the sale of its troubled dahol power project in india and the slump in the broadband division , he said .
" investors have been willing to overlook a lack of clarity with enron but now with more difficult times , they want to dig a little deeper . enron should have been doing that all along , " said chris ellinghause , analyst at williams capital group .
mr lay said yesterday that enron planned to offload other assets after selling its electricity utility portland general electric to northwest natural gas for $ 1 . 8 bn this month .
mr lay said that despite the charge , the company had had a strong quarter and the fundamentals remained strong .
" there is some optimism for the fourth quarter and for next year . we have cleaned up some operations and hopefully by doing this , we will get a sharper focus on the company ' s true strengths and growth to come . "
earlier , mr lay revealed a $ 618 m , or 84 cents a share , loss for the quarter , against a profit of $ 292 m , or 34 cents , last time .
the charges included $ 544 m for losses on investments in the new power company , broadband and technology investments . the company took a $ 180 m charge to restructure its broadband division and a $ 287 m loss related to azurix , the water treatment and infrastructure business .
revenue jumped 60 per cent to $ 47 . 6 bn .
the company ' s main profit driver , its wholesale energy division , had strong results in its natural gas and electricity trading , especially in north america .
asked if enron intended to report any other charges , mr lay said : " if we thought we had other impaired assets they would be on the list today . "
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
observer - excuse me - avenue of the americas .
10 / 17 / 2001
financial times ( u . k . edition )
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
excuse me ?
ken lay , chairman of enron , the us energy group and trader , was in the hot seat yesterday trying to explain a surprise $ 1 bn charge to analysts and the media on the company ' s third - quarter conference call when a hapless caller offered some light relief .
" is this the duke conference call ? " the listener asked , interrupting lay ' s explanation for a hefty third - quarter loss from failed investments in telecommunications , retail energy sales and water .
( duke energy competes head on with the aggressive , houston - based enron . )
the conference host moved in swiftly : " you are calling about duke ? this is enron ' s third - quarter call " , as much laughter ensued .
then lay , who has promised to provide analysts with more information about the company , chimed in : " now if you ' d like to ask about duke , we ' ll do that too . "
lay ' s approach was noticeably relaxed - despite the poor result - and unlike that of his predecessor and right - hand man , jeff skilling , who quit the company in august but is still fondly remembered for his use of vivid epithets during conference calls .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
world stock markets - financials lead wall street to modest gains .
by mary chung .
10 / 17 / 2001
financial times ( u . k . edition )
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
us equities reversed their losses and posted modest gains in late trading with financials leading the way .
stocks bounced in and out of positive territory before making a decisive move higher . the dow jones industrial average closed up 36 . 61 at 9 , 384 . 23 while the s & p 500 index edged up 7 . 56 at 1 , 097 . 54 . the nasdaq composite rose 25 . 76 to 1 , 722 . 07 . volume remained low with 1 . 2 bn trades in the nyse , which traders said accounted for some of the session ' s exaggerated moves .
investors combed through a slew of corporate earnings reports and braced for more big - cap results after the close , including statements from tech heavyweights intel and ibm . intel was up
2 . 4 per cent while ibm slipped 0 . 15 per cent .
" we ' re kind of hot and heavy in earnings season and the main focus is on results , " said tom van leuven , us equity strategist at jp morganchase . " it ' s the same trend in lowered expectations and that is translating into lower consensus growth numbers . "
financials showed strength with bank one up 8 per cent at $ 32 . 81 after it reported third - quarter earnings that surpassed expectations .
shares in wells fargo fell 1 . 4 per cent at $ 40 . 19 after reporting a 42 per cent rise in net income , although earnings fell short of analysts ' estimates .
dow components american express rose 1 . 3 per cent at $ 31 . 30 and citigroup 2 . 9 per cent at $ 46 . 09 . caterpillar slipped 0 . 35 per cent at $ 48 . 03 after the construction equipment manufacturer reported third - quarter earnings failed to meet wall street estimates .
united technologies brought cheer to investors after the company topped expectations and posted a 14 per cent rise in profits . the company also said it would cut 5 , 000 jobs . its shares rose 2 per cent at $ 54 .
johnson & johnson was up 2 per cent at $ 56 . 77 after the health and consumer products maker posted results that beat estimates .
energy stocks were broadly higher with enron , the energy trader , up 2 per cent at $ 33 . 84 after reporting quarterly results that met expectations but excluded a $ 1 bn charge .
wl paso gained 2 per cent at $ 52 . 52 and chevrontexaco tacked on 0 . 8 per cent at $ 89 . 15 .
leading technology stocks were higher with microsoft up 0 . 7 per cent at $ 58 . 45 while cisco systems gained 4 . 7 per cent at $ 16 . 97 .
the morning ' s economic data were negative . september industrial production fell 1 per cent following august ' s 0 . 7 per cent decline .
toronto closed higher , led by gains in technology and base - metal stocks . the s & p 300 composite index rose 71 . 99 or 1 . 03 per cent to end at 7 , 027 . 62 .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
world stock markets - end of wall st surge leaves techs struggling .
by mary chung .
10 / 17 / 2001
financial times ( u . k . edition )
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
us equities were mixedby midday after an earlyrally evaporated , sending blue chips lower and leaving technology stocks battling to stay in positive territory .
the dow jones industrial average lost momentum and was down 10 . 72 at 9 , 336 . 90 while the s & p 500 index edged up 0 . 52 at 1 , 090 . 50 . the nasdaq composite held on to a 7 . 13 gain at 1 , 703 . 44 .
investors combed through a slew of corporate earnings reports and braced for more big - cap results after the close , including statements from tech heavyweights intel and ibm . intel was up 1 per cent while ibm slipped 1 per cent .
" we ' re kind of hot and heavy in earnings season and the main focus is on results , " said tom van leuven , us equity strategist at jp morganchase . " it ' s the same trend in lowered expectations and that is translating into lower consensus growth numbers . "
caterpillar weighed on the dow after the construction equipment manufacturer reported third - quarter earnings failed to meet wall street estimates . the stock fell 2 per cent at $ 47 . 31 .
united technologies brought cheer to investors after the company topped expectations and posted a 14 per cent rise in profits . the company also said it would cut 5 , 000 jobs . its shares rose 3 per cent at $ 54 . 65 .
johnson & johnson was up 1 . 2 per cent at $ 56 . 40 after the health and consumer products maker posted results that beat estimates .
enron , the energy trader , was up 1 per cent at $ 33 . 45 after reporting quarterly results that met expectations but excluded a $ 1 bn charge .
financials were stronger with american express up 1 per cent at $ 31 . 16 and citigroup 2 . 2 per cent at $ 45 . 81 . wells fargo gained 0 . 34 per cent at $ 40 . 91 after reporting a 42 per cent rise in net income , although earnings fell short of analysts ' estimates .
bank one rose 6 . 2 per cent at $ 32 . 34 after it reported third - quarter earnings that surpassed expectations .
leading technology stocks were mixed with microsoft trading near flat at $ 58 . 13 while cisco systems gained 1 per cent at $ 16 . 38 .
the morning ' s economic data were negative . september industrial production fell 1 per cent following august ' s 0 . 7 per cent decline .
toronto rose in early trading , led higher by a rally for technology stocks . the s & p 300 composite index was up 0 . 4 per cent at 6 , 982 . 80 at midsession .
top - weighted nortel networks gained 11 cents to c $ 9 . 31 and sierra wireless c $ 1 . 55 to c $ 21 . 15 . research in motion added 36 cents at c $ 27 . 30 .
banks were hit by negative broker comment . imperial bank of commerce lost 38 cents at c $ 50 . 50 and bank of nova scotia 32 cents at c $ 44 . 70 .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
oct . 16 , 2001 , 11 : 32 pm
enron posts loss after write - downs
core businesses considered solid
houston chronicle
by laura goldberg
copyright 2001 houston chronicle
enron corp . posted a third - quarter loss after taking $ 1 . 01 billion in charges aimed at dealing with problems it said distracted investors from focusing on the company ' s core energy businesses .
with write - offs in its water and broadband businesses and on a retail electricity investment , the energy trader tuesday reported a loss of $ 618 million or 84 cents a diluted share . that compares with net income of $ 292 million , or 34 cents a diluted share , a year ago .
" the underlying earnings from what enron does well , which in my view is wholesale and retail energy , were solid , " said andre meade , an analyst with commerzbank securities in new york . " the big news item is the significant write - down . "
the charges include :
? $ 287 million to reflect losses on assets to be sold by troubled water and wastewater services unit azurix .
? $ 180 million related to downsizing in enron ' s broadbroad operations including severance cost and losses on both inventory sales and customer contracts .
? $ 544 million for investment losses and dismantling a financial vehicle used by enron for investment projects that was disliked by some on wall street .
about half the amount is related to new power co . , a retail electricity and natural gas provider that is 45 percent owned by enron .
enron created new power and then spun it off . in last year ' s initial public offering , new power shares debuted at $ 21 . tuesday , they closed at $ 1 . 90 .
enron also has its own retail energy business that follows a different model .
other portions of the charge cover losses on investments in broadband and technology ventures .
meade said the charges call into the question some of the directions enron has moved in outside of its core energy business .
he added : " it certainly confirmed a lot of the businesses that they went into and were highly touted have destroyed value . that ' s not good for a company like enron , which is very innovative . "
excluding the charges , enron ' s third - quarter net income increased 35 percent year - over - year to $ 393 million , or 43 cents a diluted share .
analysts surveyed by thomson financial / first call expected , on average , enron to report a profit , before one - time charges , of 43 cents a diluted share .
ken lay , enron ' s chairman and chief executive , said enron turned out strong results in its core wholesale and retail energy businesses , as well as its natural gas pipelines .
" as these numbers show , enron ' s core energy business fundamentals are excellent , " lay said on a conference call .
income for its wholesale services division , before interest and taxes , rose 28 percent year - over - year .
enron also made good on its pledge to give analysts and investors more detailed financial information .
in its earnings release , it broke down performances in its core wholesale division by segment . for example , it included lines with details about its coal , metals and other specific commodities .
enron promised more financial data as it worked to restore investor confidence lost after ceo jeff skilling unexpectedly resigned in august , citing personal reasons .
" it ' s definitely an improvement . i was happy with that , " meade said of the information enron provided . but he would have liked even more detail .
shares in enron closed up 67 cents tuesday , at $ 33 . 84 .
wall street was looking for enron to clean house this quarter and expected write - offs of $ 2 billion to $ 3 billion , said carol coale , an analyst with prudential securities in houston .
" they spruced up the house , but they didn ' t actually clean out all the cobwebs , " she said , adding that she suspects further write - downs may follow .
enron did note three areas still facing uncertainty : ongoing disputes over its india power plant project , its broadband business and money owed for power sold in california .
coale said she is concerned about further hits to enron ' s balance sheet that could lower its credit rating , which is currently of investment - grade quality . but she also said pending assets sales may reduce or eliminate any balance sheet problems , she said .
three separate deals to sell international assets for almost $ 900 million are slated to close this year . and earlier this month , enron announced a deal to sell power utility portland general electric for almost $ 1 . 9 billion , which includes $ 1 . 55 billion in cash . the buyer is also to assume about $ 1 . 1 billion in debt .
other asset sales are in the works .
enron stressed it ' s committed to keeping its investment - grade rating . after enron ' s earnings were released , standard & poor ' s affirmed its ratings for enron , while fitch also said it expects no change in its credit ratings .
however , moody ' s investors service put all enron ' s long - term debt obligations on review for potential downgrade . moody ' s did say the portland general sale " will go a long way to help restore enron ' s balance sheet , " but noted it still requires regulatory approval and is likely to take up to a year to complete .
mark to market : a defiant spring in their steps
by jim murphy
10 / 17 / 2001
capital markets report
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
a dow jones newswires column
new york - ( dow jones ) - insouciance is the word i ' m looking for .
of late , wall street seems insouciant , intent on keeping the sunny side up , maintaining its cheer in the face of bad news .
tuesday , on the earnings front , there was plenty of bad news - before stock markets opened , while they were open and after they closed .
for example , more than two hours before the nyse opened , enron corp . reported its largest quarterly loss ever . but its shares closed with a gain of 67 cents .
on the other hand , enron shares dropped 7 % on monday , which again raises a question never far from the minds of those who follow wall street : what did whoever know and when did they know it ? which is the interrogatory form of " some pigs are more equal than others . "
after the bell tuesday , ibm reported that third - quarter earnings fell 19 % on a 6 % decline in sales . no matter . in after - hours trading , in less than two hours after the news , ibm shares had gained almost $ 4 . 00 each .
all the major stock indexes closed higher tuesday , with one of the most inclusive of all ,