Subject: enron mentions
cauley geller bowman & coates , llp announces class action lawsuit against enron corp . on behalf of investors
pr newswire - 10 / 23 / 01
heading up - - - trade body to go ahead with conference in qatar
the toronto star - 10 / 23 / 01
inside money
sec inquiry of enron rattles stock
orlando sentinel - 10 / 23 / 01
enron keeps analysts happy as investors flee : call of the day
bloomberg - 10 / 23 / 01
enron asks citigroup for $ 750 mln loan , people say ( updatel )
bloomberg - 10 / 23 / 01
how enron blew it
texas monthly - november 2001 edition
enron fails to smooth things over
thestreet . com - 10 / 23 / 01
stocks
more static for enron
forbes . com - 10 / 23 / 01
aes says indian state interfering in ops , complains to pm
dow jones international news - 10 / 23 / 01
u . s . - based aes corp . complains about harassment from indian state government
associated press newswires - 10 / 23 / 01
cauley geller bowman & coates , llp announces class action lawsuit against enron corp . on behalf of investors
10 / 23 / 2001
pr newswire
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , pr newswire )
little rock , ark . , oct . 23 / prnewswire / - - the law firm of cauley geller bowman ( ii ) that the company ' s operating results were materially overstated as a result of the company failing to timely write - down the value of its investments with certain limited partnerships which were managed by the company ' s chief financial officer ; and ( iii ) that enron was failing to write - down impaired assets on a timely basis in accordance with gaap . on october 16 , 2001 , enron surprised the market by announcing that the company was taking non - recurring charges of $ 1 . 01 billion after - tax , or ( $ 1 . 11 ) loss per diluted share , in the third quarter of 2001 , the period ending september 30 , 2001 . subsequently , enron revealed that a material portion of the charge related to the unwinding of investments with certain limited partnerships which were controlled by enron ' s chief financial officer and that the company would be eliminating more than $ 1 billion in shareholder equity as a result of its unwinding of the investments . as this news began to be assimilated by the market , the price of enron common stock dropped significantly . during the class period , enron insiders disposed of over $ 73 million of their personally - held enron common stock to unsuspecting investors .
if you bought enron common stock between january 18 , 2000 and october 17 , 2001 , inclusive , and you wish to serve as lead plaintiff , you must move the court no later than december 21 , 2001 . if you are a member of this class , you can join this class action online at http : / / www . classlawyer . com / sign _ up . html . any member of the purported class may move the court to serve as lead plaintiff through cauley geller bowman & coates , llp or other counsel of their choice , or may choose to do nothing and remain an absent class member .
cauley geller bowman & coates , llp has substantial experience representing investors in securities fraud class action lawsuits such as this . the firm has offices in florida , arkansas and california , but represents investors throughout the nation . if you have any questions about how you may be able to recover for your losses , or if you would like to consider serving as one of the lead plaintiffs in this lawsuit , you are encouraged to call or e - mail the firm or visit the firm ' s website at www . classlawyer . com . cauley geller bowman & coates , llp
investor relations department :
jackie addison , sue null or charlie gastineau
p . o . box 25438
little rock , ar 72221 - 5438
toll free : 1 - 888 - 551 - 9944
e - mail : info @ classlawyer . com
contacts : ( for media )
charlie gastineau or sue null
1 - 888 - 551 - 9944
make your opinion count - click here
/ contact : charlie gastineau or sue null of cauley geller bowman & coates , llp , + 1 - 888 - 551 - 9944 / 11 : 37 edt
copyright ? 2000 dow jones ap photo
10 / 23 / 2001
the toronto star
ontario
eo 2
copyright ( c ) 2001 the toronto star
world trade organization chief mike moore says the 142 - country body will go ahead with a key conference in qatar from nov . 9 - 13 that he hopes will give a major boost to the ailing global economy .
the announcement at a news briefing yesterday in doha , qatar , ended weeks of uncertainty over the meeting ' s venue , which had been thrown into question by security fears , mounting international concern over terrorism and a surge of anti - western feeling in muslim countries since the start of u . s . attacks on afghanistan .
" if something seismic or catastrophic happens , we will reconsider , but we are planning to come here in just over two weeks ' time , " moore said .
the focus of the conference will be efforts to launch a new round of negotiations among all member countries to remove many of the remaining barriers to free global trade .
3 m ' s profit sags
minnesota mining & manufacturing co . says third - quarter profit fell 21 per cent as a slumping global economy reduced sales and workforce cuts increased expenses .
profit fell to $ 394 million ( u . s . ) , or 99 cents a share , from $ 499 million , or $ 1 . 25 , in the year - ago quarter . sales fell 7 . 1 per cent to $ 3 . 97 billion from $ 4 . 27 billion , the company added in a statement yesterday .
3 m , which makes products that range from post - it notes to circuit boards , has been eliminating 5 , 000 workers and cutting costs to cope with slowing sales .
copper plunges
copper fell in london yesterday , nearing the lowest price in almost 15 years , on expectations for slowing demand from users such as electronics makers and construction companies .
copper for delivery in three months fell as much as $ 8 ( u . s . ) to $ 1 , 366 a tonne on the london metal exchange , where prices are down 25 per cent this year . a move through the 1999 intraday low of $ 1 , 365 will mark the lowest price since february , 1987 .
enron information sought
houston - based energy - trading giant enron corp . says the u . s . securities and exchange commission has sought information on company transactions with limited partnerships that were managed by an enron senior officer .
in a statement yesterday , enron said it will provide the federal regulatory agency with information in response to an inquiry last week .
the transactions to " hedge certain merchant investments and other assets " took place in 1999 and 2000 , according to enron ' s 2000 annual report , and resulted in a $ 16 million ( u . s . ) pre - tax gain to enron in 1999 and a $ 36 million loss in 2000 .
enron officials declined to provide details about the transactions or name the limited partnerships .
upset investors sent shares of enron down $ 5 . 40 more than 20 per cent to close at $ 20 . 65 in heavy trading in new york .
moulinex takeover okayed
a court in the paris suburb of nanterre has approved a takeover offer by household - appliance maker groupe seb sa for troubled rival moulinex sa .
seb is expected to retain nearly 3 , 500 jobs at moulinex , about half of them in france , the court said yesterday . moulinex has 8 , 800 employees worldwide , almost 5 , 600 of them in france .
seb was to disclose financial details of its offer at a news conference today .
small jets seen on rise
bombardier inc . chief executive robert brown says use of the company ' s regional jets is actually increasing , even though air traffic is down in north america a crushing 30 per cent since the terrorist attacks in the united states .
brown said yesterday he has " anecdotal evidence " that airlines are flying the company ' s 50 - seat jets more often and on more routes because the planes are more efficient than large planes to fly when traffic is light .
the trend has not brought new sales , brown said , but has helped firm up orders for the aircraft that typically take up to more than a year from the date of purchase to delivery .
he was speaking at an opening ceremony for bombardier ' s vast new aircraft - assembly plant in mirabel , que .
aliant shedding jobs
aliant telecom inc . plans to reduce its non - unionized workforce by 140 people , the atlantic region ' s largest phone company said yesterday .
a statement said that 70 of those people will receive retirement packages , but did not indicate when the other 70 employees in nova scotia , new brunswick , prince edward island and newfoundland would lose their jobs or what severance they ' d receive .
swissair planes stand on the tarmac at zurich ' s kloten airport yesterday as switzerland ' s government announced a rescue package totalling 4 . 24 billion swiss francs , or about $ 4 billion ( canadian ) .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
money
inside money
sec inquiry of enron rattles stock
associated press
10 / 23 / 2001
orlando sentinel
metro
b 5
( copyright 2001 by the orlando sentinel )
houston - - shares of enron corp . plunged monday after the energy trading giant said the securities and exchange commission had sought information about the company ' s transactions with limited partnerships , which were managed by an enron senior officer .
in a statement , enron said it had provided the regulatory agency with information in response to an inquiry last week .
" we welcome this request , " enron chairman and chief executive officer kenneth l . lay said monday . " we will cooperate fully with the sec and look forward to the opportunity to put any concern about these transactions to rest . "
investors were upset by the news , however , sending shares of enron down $ 5 . 40 to close at $ 20 . 65 on the new york stock exchange .
the transactions took place in 1999 and 2000 , according to houston - based enron ' s 2000 annual report . they resulted in a $ 16 million pre - tax gain to enron in 1999 and a $ 36 million loss in 2000 .
enron officials would not provide details about the transactions or identify the limited partnerships , instead referring questions to a section of the annual report on related party transactions .
" enron entered into transactions with [ limited partnerships ] to hedge certain merchant investments and other assets , " according to the section .
enron spokesman mark palmer said the sec first contacted enron last week and described the request is an " informal inquiry . "
" this is not an investigation , " he said . " we see the request as an opportunity to put this issue behind us . "
sec spokesman john heine said he could not comment on the filings .
the electricity marketer and natural gas provider says both internal and external auditors and attorneys reviewed the arrangements , the company ' s board was fully informed of and approved them , and they were disclosed in the company ' s sec filings .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron keeps analysts happy as investors flee : call of the day
2001 - 10 - 23 17 : 08 ( new york )
enron keeps analysts happy as investors flee : call of the day
new york , oct . 23 ( bloomberg ) - - over lunch in a conference
room at boston ' s four seasons hotel last thursday , enron corp .
chairman kenneth lay tried to convince analysts and investors that
the company has no more surprises .
with the analysts , he apparently succeeded . enron remains one
of wall street ' s most highly rated stocks , even after the largest
energy trader acknowledged that transactions with partnerships run
by its chief financial officer led to a writedown of $ 1 . 2 billion
in shareholder equity .
lay wasn ' t so successful with investors , who have abandoned
enron shares , slashing their value 42 percent in a week .
` ` you ' ve got a lot of people lining up to say the emperor has
no clothes , ' ' said richard gross of lehman brothers inc . , who
today repeated his ` ` strong buy ' ' rating on enron . analysts at
credit suisse first boston , goldman , sachs & co . and other firms
have also kept their highest ratings on enron .
gross still likes the look of enron ' s finery . ` ` the core
franchise here is very valuable , ' ' he said , and the stock ' s
decline more than reflects the ` ` worst case ' ' for the company .
in boston and at similar meetings in houston and new york ,
lay had to explain the unwinding of the partnerships . he and other
enron executives assured investors the company has no more
surprises in store , according to greg phelps , who manages $ 1 . 1
billion at john hancock advisers inc . , and attended the boston
session .
the partnerships functioned somewhat like private equity
funds , according to analysts and investors , and included
investments that lost money . the securities and exchange
commission has asked for more information about them , enron said
yesterday .
one hold , one sell
while two analysts have cut their enron ratings after
learning about the partnerships , they only dented the company ' s
popularity on wall street .
michael heim of a . g . edwards & sons inc . in st . louis lowered
his rating to ` ` hold ' ' from ` ` buy ' ' on friday . he said he has been
looking for discussion of the partnerships in enron ' s sec filings
and is only seeing ` ` vague references ' ' that don ' t leave him with
a ` ` good comfort level . ' '
with heim ' s rating change , enron went from being the second
most highly rated stock in the standard & poor ' s 500 index to the
10 th , according to thomson financial / first call .
today , zach wagner at edward jones & co . in st . louis cut
enron to ` ` reduce ' ' from ` ` accumulate . ' ' ratings by edward jones ,
which caters to individual investors rather than institutions ,
aren ' t tracked by first call .
first call translates analyst ratings into numbers , with
` ` strong buy ' ' a one , ` ` buy ' ' a two , and so on , then averages the
ratings to rank a company ' s wall street popularity . the most
highly rated stock is tyco international ltd . , which has fallen 12
percent this year .
enron shares fell 86 cents to $ 19 . 79 today .
remaining skeptical
however highly brokerage analysts rate the stock , ` ` i have to
remain skeptical , ' ' said barry borak , energy analyst at david l .
babson & co . , which manages $ 60 billion in cambridge ,
massachusetts .
` ` there ' s been a huge loss of management credibility at
enron , ' ' borak said , because of the partnerships and the
unexpected departure in august of jeffrey skilling , who had held
the post of chief executive officer for six months and was heir
apparent to lay . ` ` nobody i ' ve talked to thinks ( skilling ' s
departure ) is for personal reasons , ' ' borak said .
skilling helped transform enron from a gas pipeline company
into the biggest energy trading company . enron also owns power
plants in deregulated markets .
borak said babson doesn ' t own enron shares and won ' t be a
buyer ` ` until i can get better , more thorough information about
what else might pop up in the future . ' '
borak and other investors said enron has a reputation for not
providing enough information about its businesses , and they said
this makes the positive view of the company on wall street more
difficult to understand .
after skilling resigned , lay said the company would be more
open about its businesses . a bullet point in his talk in boston
was ` ` increased transparency of financial and operating results , ' '
according to a handout provided at the boston meeting .
amazed , dismayed
prudential securities inc . analyst carol coale wrote in a
note to clients last week that she was ` ` amazed at the willingness
of enron ' s management to break out earnings and expenses to the
degree that it disclosed in the third quarter . ' '
coale also wrote that she was ` ` dismayed by the apparent
` disguise ' of the additional $ 1 . 2 billion equity hit that was not
disclosed in ( enron ' s ) press release and was briefly mentioned in
the earnings conference call . ' ' coale kept her rating on enron at
` ` buy . ' '
phelps at john hancock said that his ` ` cynical side ' '
believes that investment banking business has helped keep wall
street recommending enron stock . ` ` they provide some good
underwriting business , ' ' he said .
credit suisse first boston managed a secondary sale of 12
million enron shares in 1999 , with lehman brothers acting
as co - manager . credit suisse has also managed bond sales for
enron this year .
enron asks citigroup for $ 750 mln loan , people say ( updatel )
2001 - 10 - 23 16 : 38 ( new york )
enron asks citigroup for $ 750 mln loan , people say ( updatel )
( updates with closing share price in sixth paragraph . )
new york , oct . 23 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . , the biggest
energy trader , has asked citigroup inc . to arrange a $ 750 million
loan , ensuring access to credit if the company is cut off from
money markets , say people familiar with the matter .
enron ' s shares and bonds plunged yesterday after the company
said the securities and exchange commission was investigating its
finances . the company depends on a $ 3 billion commercial paper , or
short - term debt , program to finance day - to - day operations .
moody ' s investors service last week placed all $ 13 billion of
the company ' s long - term debt securities on watch for possible
downgrade . any drop in the rating may cut off enron from the
commercial paper market , raising the costs of short - term debt .
` ` we understand that our credit rating is critical to both
the capital markets and our counterparties , ' ' enron ' s chief
financial officer andrew fastow said on a conference call today .
he said enron has $ 3 . 5 billion available on bank credit lines ,
giving it enough cash to operate normally .
dan noonan , a spokesman for citigroup ' s citibank na unit ,
declined to comment . mark palmer , a spokesman for enron , also
wouldn ' t comment .
shares of enron , based in houston , fell 86 cents to $ 19 . 79 .
they have fallen 76 percent this year .
complex financing
an investor sued enron last week , saying dealings with two
partnerships run by fastow , ljm cayman and ljm 2 co - investment ,
cost the company $ 35 million . the suit also calls fastow ' s
leadership of the partnerships , set up to remove debt from enron ' s
books , a conflict of interest .
enron bought back 62 million shares to unwind positions in
some partnerships run by fastow , said chief executive officer ken
lay on the conference call with investors today .
the number of shares differs from a wall street journal
report on thursday that said enron had bought back 55 million
shares . the buyback reduced shareholder equity by $ 1 . 2 billion ,
the journal said .
the company set up the partnerships and other affiliated
companies to buy enron assets such as power plants . the
partnerships allow enron to take debt off its books , letting it
borrow to invest in its main business of commodities trading ,
enron said . enron trades electricity , natural gas , oil , coal and
other commodities .
` ` ` they have complex off - balance sheet financing , ' ' said
commerzbank analyst andre mead . ` ` it ' s difficult to ascertain the
full impact on shareholders . ' '
the sec has asked enron about partnerships and affiliated
companies headed by fastow . the company has at least $ 3 billion in
such ` ` off - the - books ' ' financing in affiliated companies , ray
niles , a salomon smith barney analyst , wrote in a report to
investors .
depends on asset sales
one partnership , whitewing management , owns 250 , 000 preferred
shares that enron may have to convert to common stock . whitewing
partners can demand their preferred shares be converted if enron
common stock falls below a certain price or if enron ' s credit
rating drops under investment grade .
whitewing and other enron partnerships and trusts include
company executives as officers and directors , according to records
from the texas secretary of state .
` ` over the life of these trust structures , enron has in fact
issued a sizable amount of equity , ' ' enron treasurer ben gilsan
said . most of that was shares issued to enron executives as part
of a deferred compensation plan , gilsan said .
the whitewing partnership was financed with $ 1 . 4 billion in
bonds sold last year . the partnership used some of the proceeds to
buy enron power plants and plans to retire the debt by selling
them , officials said on the conference call . other company
partnerships operate with the same strategy .
` ` some investors are worried the asset sales won ' t cover the
full amount ( borrowed ) , and enron will have to furnish support to
the detriment of shareholders , ' ' said commerzbank analyst meade .
commercial paper rates
enron was paying 3 . 15 percent to issue commercial paper until
oct . 31 , which is as much as 15 basis points more than companies
with the same ` ` a 2 / p 2 ' ' short - term credit ratings that are not on
credit watch . enron ' s short - term debt is not on review for a
possible downgrade .
based on bloomberg composite ratings , most of enron ' s long -
term debt is rated at bbb 2 and bbbl , two or three levels above
investment grade . fitch , standard & poor ' s and moody ' s rate the
company ' s debt at investment grade .
enron has previously turned to citigroup for finance and
advice . in 1999 , citigroup ' s salomon smith barney unit advised the
company on its $ 1 . 45 billion acquisition of three natural gas -
fired power plants from cogen technologies inc . citibank , along
with j . p . morgan chase asian , middle eastern , european , african , as well as american - born . they are young , mostly under 35 , and dressed in the aggressively casual uniform of the tech industry - the guys wear khakis , polo shirts , and banana republic button - downs . almost preposterously fit , they move through the building intently , like winners . enron is nothing if not energetic : a big brother - size tv screen frantically reports on the stock market near a bank of elevators , while another hefty black television relaying the same news greets people entering from the garage . a sculpture of the corporate symbol , an e tipped at a jaunty angle , radiates colors as it spins frenetically on its axis ; a starbucks concession on the ground floor keeps everyone properly caffeinated . multicolored , inspirational flags hang from the ceiling , congratulating enron on its diversity and its values ; one more giant banner between elevator banks declares enron ' s simple if grandiose goal : " from the world ' s leading energy company to . . . the world ' s leading company ! "
for a while , that future seemed guaranteed , as enron transformed itself from a stodgy , troubled pipeline company in 1985 to a trading colossus in 2000 . it was a wall street darling , with a stock price that increased 1 , 700 percent in that sixteen - year period , with revenues that increased from $ 40 billion to $ 100 billion . " the very mention of the company in energy circles throughout the world creates reactions ranging from paralyzing fear to envy , " notes a 2001 report from global change associates , a firm that provides market intelligence to the energy business .
this enron was largely the creation of jeff skilling , a visionary determined to transform american business . hired sixteen years ago as a consultant by then - ceo ken lay , skilling helped build a company that disdained the old formula of finding energy in the ground , hauling it in pipelines , and then selling it to refineries and other customers . instead , it evolved into a company that could trade and market energy in all its forms , from natural gas to electricity , from wind to water . if you had a risky drilling venture , enron would fund it for a piece of the action . if you wanted your megacorporation ' s energy needs analyzed and streamlined , enron could do the job . if you were a third world country with a pitiful infrastructure and burgeoning power needs , enron was there to build and build . basically , if an idea was new and potentially - and fantastically - lucrative , enron wanted the first crack . and with each success , enron became ever more certain of its destiny . the company would be the bridge between the old economy and the high - tech world , and in february of this year , skilling reaped his reward when he succeeded lay as chief executive officer . enron , says skilling , " was a great marriage of the risk - taking mentality of the oil patch with the risk - taking mentality of the financial markets . "
the enron story reflects the culture that drove american business at the end of the twentieth century . like the high - tech companies it emulated , enron was going to reinvent the american business model and , in turn , the american economy . maybe it was natural that this brave new world also produced a culture that was based on absolutes : not just the old versus the new , but the best versus the mediocre , the risk takers versus the complacent - those who could see the future versus those who could not . the key was investing in the right kind of intellectual capital . with the best and the brightest , a company couldn ' t possibly go wrong .
or could it ? today enron ' s stock trades at around $ 35 , down from a high of $ 80 in january . the press cast enron as the archvillain of california ' s energy crisis last spring , and skilling caught a blueberry pie in the face for his relentless defense of the free market . a long - troubled power plant project in india threatened the company ' s global ambitions . telecommunications , in which enron was heavily invested , imploded . wall street analysts who once touted the company questioned its accounting practices . some of the change in enron ' s fortunes can be attributed to the economic downturn in uncertain times that has afflicted all of american business . but the culture that the company created and lived by cannot escape blame .
enron , jeff skilling says , had " a totally different way of thinking about business - we got it . " at enron , in fact , you either " got it " or you were gone - it was as simple as black and white . it is not coincidental , then , that the color scheme of skilling ' s river oaks mansion mirrors the corporation he once headed . here , the living room ' s white walls shimmer against the mahogany floors . black leather trims the edge of snowy carpets . billowy sofas set off the jet - black baby grand . in the entry , white orchids cascade from a black vase on a black pedestal table that in turn pools onto cold , white marble . there is only one off - color note : after almost twenty years , jeff skilling is no longer associated with enron , having resigned abruptly after just six months as ceo . once , skilling was hailed as the next jack welch ( general electric ' s masterful ceo ) , as one of worth magazine ' s best ceo ' s in america ( anointed in 2001 ) , and even as a daredevil who hosted the kind of unchained adventure junkets in which , a friend told businessweek , " someone could actually get killed . " today , he sounds more like ebenezer scrooge on christmas morning . " i had no idea what i ' d let go of , " skilling says of all the personal sacrifices he made while retooling enron .
from a black chair in the white library , across from a huge black and white photograph of his daughter and two sons , skilling clarifies . the demands of working 24 - 7 for enron caused him to ignore his personal finances . divorced , he lived in a 2 , 200 - square - foot house without a microwave or a dishwasher . he almost missed his brother ' s wedding . " learning a foreign language - i never learned a foreign language ! " he exclaims . he never once took his youngest son to school . " i ' m interested in the kids . you don ' t do kids in fifteen - minute scheduling . " travel : " you can ' t go to africa for a week and get anything out of it ! " skilling includes the study of architecture and design on his list of missed opportunities , then he stops and sighs . " i ' m not sure that fulfillment in life is compatible with a ceo ' s job , " he says , finally . then his eyes lock on mine , and his voice , which had softened , regains its pragmatic edge . " it would have been easy to stay , " he says . " but that would not have been good for me . "
he ' s a smallish , ruddy - faced man who keeps himself at fighting weight , handsome in the way of corporate titans , with piercing cheekbones and that assiduously stolid gaze . but the impatience skilling once reserved for cautious underlings and dull - witted utility company executives is now targeted at reporters who have labeled his resignation " bizarre " and associates who are bitterly skeptical of his need for family time . his shrug stretches the limits of his shimmering blue button - down , and his matching blue eyes look put upon . " i ' m surprised , " he says , " that people have so much trouble understanding this . "
people who passed through downtown houston in the late eighties or early nineties couldn ' t help but notice a funny and , for its time , novel scene unfolding throughout the workday at the base of the enron building . from nine to five and before and after , you could see people slipping out of the pristine silver skyscraper to smoke . they perched on the chrome banisters or lurked near the glass doors at the entry , puffing like mad . they always looked hurried and furtive , even ashamed . whatever people knew about enron in those days ( and most people didn ' t know much ) , it was often associated with that scene : enron boasted one of the first nonsmoking corporate headquarters in houston , and there couldn ' t have been clearer evidence of its break with the energy world of the past . what macho engineer would have put up with such humiliation ?
but this company was a child of another time , that period in the mid - eighties when chaos enveloped the gas business . federal deregulation of natural gas turned a steady , secure industry , in which gas pipeline companies frequently enjoyed a monopoly in portions of the areas that they served , into a volatile free - for - all . the situation was compounded five years later by federal deregulation of the pipeline business . so it happened that a gentlemanly gas pipeline company , houston natural gas ( hng ) found itself under attack from coastal corporation , oscar wyatt ' s less than gentlemanly firm . hng was then run by lay , a sturdy , taciturn former economics professor and transco chief operating officer who had a passion for military strategy . ( his doctoral thesis at the university of houston was on supply and demand in the vietnam war . ) lay , who was from missouri and never succumbed - at least outwardly - to texas brashness , had done well enough : thanks to canny expansions , hng ' s pipelines stretched from florida to california and throughout the state of texas .
hng fended off coastal , but to protect the company from other takeover attempts , lay nimbly engineered the sale of hng in 1985 to a friendly nebraska pipeline concern called internorth , one of the largest pipeline companies in the country at the time . then , a funny thing happened : hng started acting in a way that would characterize the company for years to come - a lot like coastal . what the nebraskans blithely labeled " the purchase " was being called " the merger " back in houston , and before long , following some particularly brutal politicking between omaha and houston , the company ' s center of gravity started shifting toward texas , and shortly after that , ken lay was running a new company called enron . " over time it became clear that lay had a better vision of the future , " says one person associated with enron at that time . " he never fought change . he embraced change . "
lay had won , but what exactly did that mean ? enron was saddled with massive debt from the takeover attempt , and thanks to deregulation , no longer had exclusive use of its pipelines . without new ideas - for that matter , a whole new business plan - the company could be finished before it really even got started .
like many people who teamed up with enron in the eighties , jeff skilling had spent a lot of time in the midwest , and he was self - made - at fourteen he had been the chief production director at a start - up tv station in aurora , illinois . ( his mother would drop him off there every day after school . ) " i liked being successful when i wa