Subject: enron mentions
enron replaces fastow as finance chief - - - mcmahon takes over post ; move follows concerns over partnership deals
the wall street journal , 10 / 25 / 01
enron ousts finance chief as s . e . c . looks at dealings
the new york times , 10 / 25 / 01
pressured enron ousts cfo
the washington post , 10 / 25 / 01
enron replaces cfo to reassure investors
houston chronicle , 10 / 25 / 01
front page - first section - enron replaces finance chief .
financial times ( u . k . edition ) , 10 / 25 / 01
companies appoints mcmahon
afx news , 10 / 25 / 01
enron : embattled chief financial officer ousted
chicago tribune , 10 / 25 / 01
enron ousts cfo amid sec probe
los angeles times , 10 / 25 / 01
shell - shocked enron parts with cfo
thestreet . com , 10 / 25 / 01
phew ! enron stinks
realmoney . com , 10 / 25 / 01
small - stock focus : russell 2000 ekes out increase ; adtran , arris group post gains
the wall street journal , 10 / 25 / 01
u . s . directors to be graded by activist : the ' bond ' treatment ( toronto edition headline . ) ; directors to get the bond treatment : members of boards to be graded by shareholder activists ( all but toronto edition headline . )
national post , 10 / 25 / 01
uk : u . s . stocks drift in europe as wary tone persists .
reuters english news service , 10 / 25 / 01
world stock markets - wall st favours us tech stocks over blue chips americas .
financial times ( u . k . edition ) , 10 / 25 / 01
enron replaces cfo andy fastow
cbsmarketwatch , 10 / 25 / 01
usa : update 1 - beleaguered enron names new cfo .
reuters english news service , 10 / 24 / 01
usa : utility stocks drop on slipping expectations .
reuters english news service , 10 / 24 / 01
berger move follows concerns over partnership deals
by rebecca smith and john r . emshwiller
staff reporters of the wall street journal
10 / 25 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . replaced its embattled chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow , capping a tumultuous day in which the huge energy company saw its stock price again fall sharply and help pull down the share prices of other major energy - trading companies .
investors appeared worried that enron ' s recent woes could have a destabilizing effect on the energy - trading market . the houston energy powerhouse , with annualized revenue topping $ 150 billion and assets of more than $ 60 billion , handles transactions representing roughly one - quarter of the nation ' s traded - electricity and natural - gas volumes . in less than two years of operation , its enrononline trading platform has become a central marketplace for the energy business and already has handled more than $ 880 billion in transactions .
" enron makes the market . make no mistake about that , " said merrill lynch analyst donato eassey . " there ' s not a trader out there that doesn ' t use enrononline . " as such , enron enters into thousands of transactions every day in which the company ' s credit - worthiness is critical . enron said its business operations were functioning normally yesterday . the company also has consistently said it is financially strong and liquid .
enron said its new chief financial officer is jeffrey mcmahon , the 40 - year - old head of the company ' s industrial - markets division . his selection may be intended , in part , to raise the company ' s credibility . people familiar with the matter say mr . mcmahon left his job as treasurer last year after voicing concerns within the company about mr . fastow ' s role in running two limited partnerships that were involved in billions of dollars worth of transactions with enron . internal partnership documents indicate mr . fastow and possibly a handful of associates made millions of dollars from the partnerships . mr . fastow severed his ties with those partnerships in july in the face of increasing conflict - of - interest concerns being expressed by wall street analysts and major enron investors . on monday , enron announced that the securities and exchange commission was looking into the fastow - related transactions .
while enron as recently as tuesday strongly defended mr . fastow , as well as the company ' s dealings with the partnerships , controversy over those arrangements clearly played a role in the executive ' s departure . " in my continued discussions with the financial community , it became clear to me that restoring investor confidence would require us to replace andy as cfo , " said chairman and chief executive kenneth lay in a prepared statement .
enron said mr . fastow " will be on a leave of absence from the company . " he couldn ' t be reached for comment .
it remains to be seen how much mr . fastow ' s removal will assuage an increasingly restive investment community . the action came after the 4 p . m . market close and followed a day in which enron ' s stock once again plunged . as of 4 p . m . in new york stock exchange composite trading , enron shares were at $ 16 . 41 , down $ 3 . 38 , or 17 % . it topped the big board ' s most active list at nearly 76 million shares , more than twice the volume of the second - most - active stock . several trades yesterday involved blocks of 800 , 000 shares or more , possibly indicating that some institutional holders are souring on enron stock .
enron ' s shares are down about 50 % from the beginning of last week . earlier this year , the stock was above $ 80 a share .
in an apparent ripple effect , the stocks of other energy - trading companies , which do business with enron , also fell sharply yesterday . for instance , dynegy inc . shares on the big board were off $ 5 . 45 , or 13 % , at $ 37 . 26 . a number of the energy companies hit by the selloff have business strategies much different than enron ' s , which rely heavily on complex and highly structured investment vehicles .
prudential securities analyst carol coale said mr . fastow ' s departure could be seen as evidence that " management does care " about investor concerns . however , she adds , the move also could be viewed by some investors , coming as it did two days after the announcement of the sec inquiry , as " an admission of guilt . " ms . coale yesterday issued a sell recommendation on enron largely because of uncertainties about the company ' s extremely complex financial structure .
enron has consistently denied any wrongdoing in its fastow - related dealings .
worries and rumors about enron ' s financial strength could be found in the stock market yesterday . goldman sachs analyst david fleischer said he heard people voice concerns about a possible " death spiral " in which increasing credit concerns about enron would decrease the number of people willing to do business with the company , which would in turn weaken its finances and lead to further business reductions . mr . fleischer , a longtime fan who still has a buy recommendation on the company , said he hasn ' t yet seen any evidence of such a problem .
however , mr . fleischer said , enron needs to disclose more information about its myriad of financial transactions with related partnerships and other entities . enron is facing a problem with " trust and credibility . it ' s not easy to regain something as basic as trust , " he said .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
enron ousts finance chief as s . e . c . looks at dealings
by floyd norris
10 / 25 / 2001
the new york times
page 2 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
the enron corporation , its stock battered by a sudden loss of investor confidence , yesterday ousted its chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow , whose involvement in complicated transactions with enron has drawn the scrutiny of the securities and exchange commission .
' ' in my continued discussions with the financial community , it became clear to me that restoring investor confidence would require us to replace andy as c . f . o . , ' ' kenneth l . lay , enron ' s chairman and chief executive , said in a statement announcing the change . only one day before , mr . lay had told investors in a conference call that he and the enron board ' ' continue to have the highest faith and confidence in andy . ' '
the company said that mr . fastow had taken a leave of absence , but it also named his successor , jeffrey mcmahon , the head of enron ' s industrial markets group and a former corporate treasurer .
enron said none of the officials were available for interviews last night .
the move came after the close of trading on the new york stock exchange , where enron ' s shares fell $ 3 . 38 , to $ 16 . 41 . the price has been cut in half since oct . 16 , when enron reported its third - quarter earnings . a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity brought on by ending some relationships with partnerships that mr . fastow had headed was not disclosed in the earnings news release . mr . lay briefly mentioned it in the conference call that followed , but some analysts thought he was referring to a separate $ 1 billion write - off that was disclosed in the earnings document , and were angered when they later learned about it .
on tuesday , when both mr . fastow and mr . lay discussed the company with analysts on the conference call , neither was willing to discuss details of the transactions between enron and the partnerships formerly controlled by mr . fastow . mr . lay cited the s . e . c . inquiry in declining to discuss the details of the transactions .
the fact the transactions took place has been known for a year , but enron ' s disclosures have been widely criticized for being impossible to understand .
by structuring the deals as involving forward commitments to deliver enron stock , it appears that enron was able to assure that losses on them would not lead to reported losses , but instead to reductions of shareholder equity that had no effect on the income statement . that is one of the issues the s . e . c . , whose inquiries were disclosed monday by the company , is expected to address .
concerns have also grown this week over whether enron will face losses from complicated financing strategies that kept billions of dollars of debts off its balance sheet but left the company responsible for paying - - either in cash or with stock - - if things went wrong . on tuesday , mr . fastow assured investors that the company ' ' expects to continue to have sufficient liquidity to meet normal obligations , ' ' and said it had bank credit lines that were more than adequate .
mr . fastow was viewed as one of the architects , with jeffrey k . skilling , the former enron chief executive who resigned in august , of the change in business strategy that turned enron from a gas - pipeline company into a an energy trading powerhouse that developed a large wall street following . its stock price peaked in the summer of 2000 at $ 90 . 75 .
according to a person close to the company , while mr . mcmahon , mr . fastow ' s successor , was enron ' s treasurer , he told mr . skilling , who at the time was the chief operating officer , that he thought the partnerships involving mr . fastow presented a conflict of interest . after that discussion , mr . mcmahon moved to a different job at the company , this person said .
shares of enron traded as low as $ 15 . 51 yesterday afternoon , the lowest price for the stock since early 1995 , before recovering . in after - hours trading , they fell to $ 16 . 14 .
one of the factors that hurt the stock yesterday was a decision by m . carol coale , an analyst at prudential securities , to drop her rating to ' ' sell ' ' from ' ' hold . ' ' she had lowered the rating to ' ' hold ' ' from ' ' buy ' ' on monday .
' ' after the s . e . c . inquiry was announced , ' ' she said in an interview yesterday evening , ' ' enron should have addressed it by delivering a scapegoat , as a gesture to the street . now they are replacing him today . the timing is a little late , but i think it will be received positively by the street . ' '
but she said that investor sentiment might work the other way . ' ' people could fear that if you remove fastow from the management team , you ' ll never get any answers . ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
financial
pressured enron ousts cfo
10 / 25 / 2001
the washington post
final
eo 2
copyright 2001 , the washington post co . all rights reserved
enron replaced andrew fastow as its chief financial officer , a day after chief executive kenneth lay stressed the company ' s confidence in fastow , who performed dual roles as the energy giant ' s cfo while managing partnerships with which enron did business . " in my continued discussions with the financial community , it became clear to me that restoring investor confidence would require us to replace andy as cfo , " lay said in a statement . the partnerships have been dissolved .
http : / / www . washingtonpost . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
oct . 25 , 2001 , 12 : 06 am
houston chronicle
enron replaces cfo to reassure investors
by laura goldberg
copyright 2001 houston chronicle
in a bid to repair its badly damaged credibility on wall street , houston - based enron corp . removed its chief financial officer wednesday , as federal securities regulators review business dealings between enron and two investment partnerships that he ran .
enron , the world ' s largest energy trader , said chief financial officer andrew fastow had been put on a " leave of absence " for an undetermined period and named another enron executive , jeff mcmahon , as his replacement . the company said the move was not a reflection on fastow or a belief that he had done anything improper .
" in my continued discussions with the financial community , it became clear to me that restoring investor confidence would require us to replace andy as cfo , " enron chairman and ceo ken lay said in a statement after the stock market closed on a day investors continued dumping shares .
enron , which had seen its stock battered this year for a variety of reasons , found itself high on wall street ' s hit list after it released third - quarter earnings on oct 16 .
the earnings report drew renewed attention to something investors and analysts had already expressed displeasure at : fastow , with the approval of enron ' s board , had formed and run two investment partnerships - - ljm cayman and ljm 2 co - investment .
the partnerships , which did complex financing and hedging deals with enron , served as a source of funding for enron projects and investments .
but wall street questioned how fastow could watch out for the interests of enron ' s shareholders and the investment partnership at the same time .
so fastow , in june , resigned his roles at the partnerships and enron also ended its relationships with the ljm entities . during the third - quarter , enron took a $ 35 million loss related to ending its ljm ties as well as a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity .
tuesday , lay told analysts and investors that procedures were rigorously followed to ensure the interests of enron and its shareholders were protected in dealings with the ljm partnerships . he said a " chinese wall " existed between enron and ljm .
fastow ' s replacement , mcmahon , previously served as enron ' s treasurer before moving last year to another job with enron . most recently , he headed up the company ' s industrial markets group . a source close to enron said mcmahon asked to be reassigned from the treasurer ' s job because he was uncomfortable with the fastow - ljm setup .
enron spokesman mark palmer said neither fastow nor mcmahon was available for comment wednesday . he also didn ' t know whether fastow is still receiving a salary .
enron disclosed on monday that federal securities regulators had begun an " informal inquiry " into the ljm dealings .
the news proved terrible for a company already working to rebuild investor confidence after a series of failed investments in telecommunications , water and retail power businesses and the surprise resignation of ceo jeff skilling in august for personal reasons .
a continuously growing number of shareholder lawsuits against enron followed the earnings report and the news of the sec inquiry .
wall street has stepped up its chronic complaints that enron ' s various financial dealings are too complex to follow and that the company fails to give analysts enough data to make proper evaluations .
beyond the ljm partnerships , investors are concerned about two other partnerships enron set up . among the worries is that enron will end up having to issue new shares of stock to cover commitments associated with those entities .
investors wouldn ' t like that because it would dilute the value of current outstanding shares . they are also afraid that enron ' s debt credit rating may be downgraded , which could have negative impacts on its overall business .
in the last six days , enron ' s shares have closed lower and lower . on oct . 16 , the stock closed at $ 33 . 84 . on wednesday it closed at $ 16 . 41 , down $ 3 . 38 .
wednesday , the hubbub surrounding enron also dragged down shares in other companies that engage in energy trading , including houston - based dynegy , which closed down $ 5 . 45 at $ 37 . 26 . there is concern enron ' s woes could in some way end up harming the energy trading markets .
a conference call lay and senior executives , including fastow , held with analysts tuesday to help clear up questions didn ' t go as enron hoped .
on wednesday , carol coale , an analyst with prudential securities in houston , moved from a " hold " to a " sell " rating .
front page - first section - enron replaces finance chief .
by julie earle and sheila mcnulty .
10 / 25 / 2001
financial times ( u . k . edition )
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
front page - first section - enron replaces finance chief - energy company attempts to halt sharp decline in its share price .
enron , the us energy group , yesterday replaced its embattled chief financial officer , andrew fastow , to try to halt a slide in its share price , which has lost about 40 per cent of its value this week .
kenneth lay , enron ' s chief executive officer , said after the market closed that mr fastow was taking a leave of absence . the move came a day after mr lay defended mr fastow amid questions about his ties to controversial partnerships that had forced enron to take a $ 1 . 2 bn write - off .
that loss , revealed last week , sparked the share sell - off amid concerns there may be more bad news to come . enron disclosed the loss during an october 16 conference call with analysts on its third - quarter results , saying the charge stemmed from closing funding mechanisms that enron had set up in the partnerships established with mr fastow .
analysts say the charge has not been satisfactorily explained , leading to confusion among investors and an unofficial inquiry by the securities and exchange commission .
" in my continued discussions with the financial community , it became clear to me that restoring investor confidence would require us to replace andy as cfo , " mr lay said . he said jeff mcmahon , chairman and chief executive of enron ' s industrial markets group , would replace mr fastow . mr mcmahon earlier served as enron ' s treasurer .
analysts said it was unclear whether mr fastow ' s departure would be enough . carol coale , of prudential securities , said the move was positive in demonstrating that enron was being sensitive to wall street , which had called for mr fastow to be replaced . yet , she added , it came three days after those calls .
ms coale issued a " sell " recommendation on enron earlier yesterday , leading to a drop of almost 18 per cent in its share price . " we are concerned about what we don ' t know , " ms coale said . she was concerned that enron might have to sell assets below book value to maintain its credit rating , or be forced to issue equity to bolster its balance sheet . enron might also lose customers to competitors that were not under such pressure .
enron believes such concerns are misplaced and the sec inquiry will prove the company has done nothing wrong . lex , page 16 .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies & finance the americas - ' sell ' note issued on enron shares .
by sheila mcnulty .
10 / 25 / 2001
financial times ( u . k . edition )
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
shares in enron , the us energy group , fell again yesterday after prudential securities issued a " sell " note on concerns that the $ 1 . 2 bn loss taken by the company last week might not be the end of its bad news .
in the first hour of new york stock exchange trading , enron ' s stock was the biggest percentage loser , dropping 20 . 2 per cent to $ 15 . 80 - its lowest level since august 1995 . /
" we are concerned about what we don ' t know , " said carol coale , the prudential analyst who covers enron .
she was disappointed that enron had not been more forthcoming in the conference call it held on tuesday in response to charges it was not being transparent .
investors have been abandoning the stock since october 16 , when enron told analysts it was taking a $ 1 . 2 bn loss in shutting down funding mechanisms it had set up in controversial partnerships established with andrew fastow , the chief financial officer .
this charge has not been thoroughly explained , leading to confusion among analysts and an unofficial inquiry by the securities and exchange commission .
ms coale said she was concerned enron might have to sell assets below book value to maintain its credit rating , or be forced to issue equity to bolster its balance sheet . she said enron might lose customers to competitors that are not under such pressure .
enron believes such concerns are misplaced and that the sec enquiry will prove that the company has done nothing wrong .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
lex column - enron .
10 / 25 / 2001
financial times ( u . k . edition )
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
enron
to lose a chief executive may be regarded as a misfortune . to lose the chief financial officer as well looks like carelessness .
enron ' s effort to increase transparency , revealing more operating data in its third quarter release , was undermined by its decision to gloss over a $ 1 . 2 bn equity charge related to the closing of " related party transactions " with two off - balance sheet financing vehicles . and it neglected to mention that the vehicles were run by andrew fastow , its cfo . conflict of interest anyone ?
the securities and exchange commission is conducting an informal inquiry . investors , angry after the initial revelation , had reason to feel more so after its conference call , which was supposed to clear up confusion over the financing vehicles and related party transactions . the call had the opposite effect .
the charge to shareholders ' equity , and the related reduction in notes receivable , was the result of closing one of the vehicles - and the termination of previously recorded contractual obligations to deliver enron shares . the uncertainty is whether enron might have to sell assets or issue new stock to cover possible shortfalls in other vehicles . credit concerns and lack of disclosure explain the weakness of stock and bond prices . enron is unlikely to lose its investment grade status , but dilution is a real risk for shareholders . mr fastow has gone ( following jeffrey skilling , former chief executive , who quit after only six months as ceo ) . but the credibility problem goes beyond one individual .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron corp . cut to ` market perform ' at banc of america
2001 - 10 - 25 08 : 49 ( new york )
princeton , new jersey , oct . 25 ( bloomberg data ) - - enron corp . ( ene us )
was downgraded to ` ` market perform ' ' from ` ` strong buy ' ' by analyst william j
maze at banc of america .
baring asset management ' s mcclen on enron : investor comments
2001 - 10 - 25 08 : 09 ( new york )
london , oct . 25 ( bloomberg ) - - the following are comments by
catherine mcclen , who helps manage about $ 17 billion of bonds for
baring asset management , about enron corp .
yesterday , enron ousted chief financial officer andrew fastow
amid a securities and exchange commission inquiry into
partnerships he ran that cost the largest energy trader
$ 35 million . mcclen said baring bought credit - linked notes issued
by houston - based enron during the summer .
` ` given what has happened , with them basically firing andy
fastow , the cfo , they ' ve finally woken up to how concerned people
are about the management - credibility issue . ' ' on a recent
conference call ` ` no one thought they did themselves any favor in
terms of calming investors ' concerns . ' '
` ` they were slightly hiding behind the fact that the sec has
got this inquiry going . the fact that two days later andy is gone ,
and he was in the center , is a good sign that the company is
realizing just how concerned investors are . ' '
` ` there ' s always that worry once the sec gets involved that
it could extend . you never know what could come of that . ' '
` ` there is a bit of fear of the unknown about enron now , with
the sec inquiry and the risk that there could be further asset
write - downs . ' '
` ` another thing they ' re criticized for is their lack of
disclosure . we still haven ' t seen a balance sheet for the third
quarter . ' '
` ` people are saying , why don ' t you include a balance sheet
with your results ? they promised better disclosure in the past and
that was meant to begin in the third quarter . ' '
` ` you ' d like to see just more information on asset write -
downs and a discussion of their off - balance - sheet financing - - all
these vehicles they have like marlin and osprey . ' '
` ` we ' d like to see some clarity , answering those sort of
questions . ' '
` ` it seems as though enron at least are maybe at the start of
a process where they ' re going to address and clean up their
balance sheet and they ' ve started to replace management . ' '
` ` investors have already had enough issues ' ' in corporate
bonds recently and ` ` sometimes investors just think , ` not another
nasty in my portfolio , ' and i ' d rather exit . ' '
` ` for certain investors maybe they just get scared . i wanted
to know more about it . people had speculated if it could go to
junk . i don ' t think they could because i don ' t think enron could
exist as a junk company . ' '
` ` there ' s a certain reluctance ' ' to sell the bonds . ` ` you
want to stand back for a moment and look at the fundamentals . ' '
` ` when the spreads have already moved out that wide you have
to reassess and see whether you think it ' s a buying opportunity . ' '
- - christine harper in the london newsroom ( 44 20 ) 7330 - 7982 or
charper @ bloomberg . net / jom
enron ousts cfo amid partnership questions
by pam easton
associated press writer
10 / 25 / 2001
associated press newswires
copyright 2001 . the associated press . all rights reserved .
houston ( ap ) - enron corp . may have added another question to the list investors already have by ousting its chief financial officer a day after the company stressed its confidence in andrew fastow amid a securities and exchange commission inquiry .
" it could either be viewed as a positive step toward easing investor concern or it could be interpreted as if enron removed the cfo at the request of the sec , " prudential securities inc . analyst carol coale said wednesday . " who knows ? "
enron officials hope it will result in increased investor confidence after the energy trading giant ' s stocks have declined in value each day since monday ' s announcement that the sec had inquired about partnerships that did business with enron while they were managed by fastow .
" in my continued discussions with the financial community , it became clear to me that restoring investor confidence would require us to replace andy as cfo , " enron chief executive officer kenneth lay said after markets closed wednesday .
fastow will take a leave of absence from the company while jeff mcmahon , who has served as chairman and chief executive of enron ' s industrial markets group , takes over his role .
" i think change is good at this particular point in time , " said fac equities analyst robert christensen said . " i think andy was somewhat beleaguered . "
a . g . edwards & sons analyst mike heim , however , said it will take more than replacing fastow as chief financial officer to clear the uncertainty looming in the financial world about enron and its partnerships .
" i think the reason why the stock has been declining so sharply the last few days is due to a lack of clarity on the partnership arrangements , " heim said .
replacing fastow alone won ' t clarify those arrangements , he added .
" there is still uncertainty despite promises by management to be more transparent to the financial community , " heim said . " instead of being more transparent there is more confusion than ever . "
enron ' s stock continued to plummet wednesday , closing down $ 3 . 38 to $ 16 . 41 per share , a 17 percent decline .
since the wall street journal first reported on the partnerships last week , enron ' s stock price has slid nearly 52 percent .
" the market was asking for that to happen , " j . p . morgan analyst anatol feygin said of fastow ' s departure . " this is really the first time enron has acted as an agent of the shareholder in this crisis . "
previously , enron ' s managers have been " cautious and defensive in their approach , " he said .
during a conference call tuesday to address investor concern , lay said the partnerships were fully disclosed and contained measures to ensure no conflict existed as fastow carried out the dual roles . the partnerships have since been dissolved .
the call didn ' t work for many , including feygin and heim .
" i didn ' t hear things like we ' ve unrolled all these partnership dealings or here ' s all the exact details of how the partnerships work or we don ' t ever expect to take any more charges , " heim said . " what i heard is we don ' t have to disclose that information until the 10 - q is filed . "
the turbulent past few months which have included the sec inquiry , third quarter losses and the august resignation of the company ' s chief executive officer , jeff skilling , have left many analysts questioning the company ' s future , heim said .
" it ' s really a speculative bet right now , but the odds favor the company being able to weather the storm and being a healthy company if not a year from now , two years from now , " he said .
but much is going to depend on how much enron discloses to its investors , feygin said .
feygin said mcmahon worked as enron ' s treasurer for two years under fastow before a disagreement over fastow ' s involvement in the partnerships caused mcmahon to leave his job as treasurer .
" internally , jeff was always a proponent of andy not being involved in ( the partnerships ) , " feygin said . " three days ago i would have said there is no need for a change at the cfo level . today , it was pretty obvious it was something enron needed to do . "
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
financial post investing
hot stock
enron fires cfo to quell unrest : stock meltdown
jason chow
financial post , with files from bloomberg news
10 / 25 / 2001
national post
national
inl / front
( c ) national post 2001 . all rights reserved .
facing a crisis of confidence in the market , enron corp . replaced its chief financial officer yesterday as its stock continued to tumble .
after failing to rally the support of analysts in a damage - control conference call tuesday , the houston - based energy trader dropped chief financial officer andrew fastow , who has been linked to transactions being looked at by the securities and exchange commission . he was replaced by former treasurer jeff mcmahon .