Subject: enron mentions
enron taps $ 3 billion from bank lines in pre - emptive move to ensure liquidity - - - firm will pay debt , keep cash cushion
the wall street journal , 10 / 26 / 01
deals & deal makers : enron officials sell shares amid stock - price slump
the wall street journal , 10 / 26 / 01
enron ' s financial troubles reverberate to bonds with poor liquidity and credit - rating concerns
the wall street journal , 10 / 26 / 01
most analysts remain plugged in to enron
the wall street journal , 10 / 26 / 01
enron draws down $ 3 bln in credit to boost investor confidence
bloomberg , 10 / 26 / 01
enron liked by analysts despite complicated dealings , wsj says
bloomberg , 10 / 26 / 01
enron draws down $ 3 billion from its credit lines , wsj reports
bloomberg , 10 / 26 / 01
action by enron halts stock ' s fall
houston chronicle , 10 / 26 / 01
corporate us on track for bailout
the guardian , 10 / 26 / 01
harvey pitt ' s s . e . c . : from guard dog to friendly puppy ?
the new york times , 10 / 26 / 01
enron draws down at least 1 bln usd from credit lines to boost mkt confidence
afx news , 10 / 26 / 01
the five dumbest things on wall street this week
thestreet . com , 10 / 26 / 01
stocks post gains after a rough morning
the washington post , 10 / 26 / 01
sudhakar will head enron probe panel
the times of india , 10 / 26 / 01
enron taps $ 3 billion from bank lines in pre - emptive move to ensure liquidity
dow jones business news , 10 / 25 / 01
enron chief executive resigns from board of i 2 technologies
associated press newswires , 10 / 25 / 01
as enron ' s woes unnerve investors about energy sector , analysts say its problems are isolated
associated press newswires , 10 / 25 / 01
enron ' s credit outlook downgraded to negative by s no calif pwr contract talks
dow jones energy service , 10 / 25 / 01
spector , roseman & kodroff , p . c . files class action suit against enron corporation
pr newswire , 10 / 25 / 01
tgs q 3 net profit up 22 pct yr - on - yr on higher ngl sales , transport revenues
afx news , 10 / 25 / 01
enron draws down credit facility
dow jones news service , 10 / 25 / 01
enron employees watch options devalue as shares fall ( correct )
bloomberg , 10 / 25 / 01
enron taps $ 3 billion from bank lines in pre - emptive move to ensure liquidity - - - firm will pay debt , keep cash cushion
by wall street journal staff reporters john r . emshwiller , rebecca smith and jathon sapsford
10 / 26 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . drew down about $ 3 billion , the bulk of its available bank credit lines , in a bid to restore confidence in its financial strength and liquidity .
enron will use part of the money to offer to redeem about $ 1 . 85 billion of outstanding commercial paper - - short - term corporate ious - - according to a person familiar with the matter , with the remainder providing the energy concern with a cash cushion . some observers believe the move is a pre - emptive step by enron to ensure that it had adequate liquidity should its access to bank lines be interrupted . the person also said enron was talking to its banks about a new , multibillion - dollar credit line .
enron insists its business operation and financial condition remain strong . but , " when the market is reacting as irrationally as it has been the last few days , we thought that cash was better than a commitment from a bank , " said an enron spokesman . in a statement , the company ' s new chief financial officer , jeff mcmahon , said that by drawing down the bank lines , " we are making it clear that enron has the support of its banks and more than adequate liquidity to assure our customers that we can fulfill our commitments . "
the move underscored the tumultuous conditions that have been sweeping over the houston energy - trading concern in the past 10 days . enron is the nation ' s largest energy trader and is a principal in nearly one - quarter of all electricity and natural - gas trades . yesterday , for example , enron was involved in about $ 4 billion of deals through its enrononline unit .
since early last week , enron ' s share price has plummeted 50 % . last week , it reported a $ 618 million third - quarter loss and a reduction in shareholder equity of $ 1 . 2 billion . it also disclosed that the securities and exchange commission is conducting an inquiry into billions of dollars of transactions it did with entities connected to its former chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow , who was replaced wednesday .
the draw - down of the credit facilities came as one rating agency , fitch , put enron on review for a possible downgrade , while another , standard it takes time to sell assets , particularly in today ' s slower economy .
the company also is suffering from a string of disclosure controversies that have damaged its credibility , particularly in connection with its dealings with mr . fastow , the former chief financial officer . internal documents related to one of the fastow partnerships disclose that enron also did as much as hundreds of millions of dollars of business with an entity connected to another company official , who has since left enron . while enron disclosed its fastow - related transactions in sec filings , a computerized search of the sec ' s database of public filings produced no reference to this other employee - related entity known as chewco .
chewco was established in 1997 " with approximately $ 400 million in capital commitments " to buy an interest in enron assets , according to one of the partnerships documents . the document didn ' t further specify what assets were purchased , and it didn ' t disclose the financial impact of the transactions for either chewco or enron . chewco was being run by michael kopper , a managing director in enron ' s global equity markets group , according to the document .
enron , which has maintained that its complex financial transactions with employee - related entities were legal and properly disclosed , didn ' t have any comment regarding its dealings with chewco .
mr . kopper , who enron says left the company this year to focus on helping to run the fastow - related partnerships , didn ' t return phone calls . a person at his office in houston yesterday said mr . kopper was traveling . in response to questions about chewco , an enron spokesman would say only that " michael kopper was never an executive officer of enron . " mr . fastow repeatedly has declined interview requests . he severed his relationships with the partnerships in july .
this statement is an apparent reference to sec disclosure regulations regarding related - party transactions . under sec rule s - k , a company has to report any transaction that exceeds $ 60 , 000 and involves " any director or executive officer . " by contrast , mr . fastow , as cfo , would have fallen into that category , but mr . kopper , as managing director of a business unit , presumably wouldn ' t have .
however , reporting guidance issued by the financial accounting standards board seems to have a broader definition , one that might include mr . kopper . according to fas statement 57 , a related - party transaction involves a " material " piece of business between the company and a member of management . the statement defines management as directors , top officers , vice presidents in charge of major business units and " other persons who perform similar policy - making functions . persons without formal titles may also be members of management . "
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
deals & deal makers : enron officials sell shares amid stock - price slump
by theo francis and cassell bryan - low
staff reporters of the wall street journal
10 / 26 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl 4
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
officials at enron corp . , whose unusual transactions with its chief financial officer are under regulatory scrutiny , have steadily sold sizable amounts of their holdings of company stock as the share price has fallen this year .
corporate officials had sold 1 . 8 million shares valued at about $ 106 million through july , as the stock fell to less than $ 45 a share from $ 83 at the start of the year . since july , the stock has plummeted an additional 63 % to $ 16 . 35 , including a 50 % plunge since the beginning of last week .
kenneth lay , chief executive of the houston energy - trading company , cashed in shares for $ 25 . 7 million so far this year , usually in transactions paired with options exercises . he sold 429 , 614 shares , leaving him with some 2 . 8 million shares as of july , the latest data available on his sales , according to thomson financial / lancer analytics .
the dollar amount for his 2001 sales is approaching the total for all mr . lay ' s sales of enron shares for 2000 , which reached $ 30 . 7 million . in 1999 , he sold shares for a total of $ 26 million .
in houston , an enron spokeswoman declined to comment on the figures , saying the company doesn ' t keep a running tally of stockholdings by corporate officials . enron also wouldn ' t comment on the number of options held by company insiders and called the sales " a personal decision . " many sales by enron insiders were concurrent with options exercises or sales followed soon after option exercises .
strong selling by company officers and directors amid share - price declines should raise red flags for investors , says jonathan moreland , research director of insiderinsights . com , who uses insider - trading data to zero in on investment ideas .
among other insiders selling during the year , kenneth rice , former chairman and ceo of enron ' s broadband unit , sold shares for $ 23 . 7 million . mr . rice has sold 456 , 966 shares of the 1 . 5 million shares he was listed as owning in enron ' s march proxy filing . former enron chief executive jeffrey skilling - - who resigned in august - - sold 160 , 000 shares for $ 9 . 8 million during the year . in march , mr . skilling owned 1 . 9 million shares .
messrs . rice and skilling couldn ' t be reached to comment .
overall , enron ' s insiders were busier selling shares last year , when they sold 5 . 8 million shares for about $ 449 million . during 1999 , insiders sold 3 . 4 million shares for $ 123 . 1 million .
since december 1999 , only one enron executive has reported buying company shares . the buyer was andrew fastow , who was ousted during the week as enron ' s chief financial officer after the company disclosed it was under a securities and exchange commission investigation into financial ties between the company and mr . fastow .
mr . fastow reported purchasing 10 , 000 enron shares in august at $ 36 . 98 each , or a total of $ 369 , 800 . today , those shares are valued at $ 163 , 500 , based on enron ' s stock price of $ 16 . 35 in 4 p . m . new york stock exchange composite trading . after the purchase , mr . fastow owned 110 , 586 shares , thomson financial / lancer analytics says .
enron said mr . fastow wasn ' t available to comment .
on monday , a new york law firm filed suit in u . s . district court in houston , alleging that enron misrepresented its performance by failing to disclose problems with its broadband division and failing to properly write down the value of investments in limited partnerships managed by mr . fastow . the suit , which seeks class - action status , also says enron insiders sold $ 73 million of their own enron holdings during parts of 2000 and 2001 .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
credit markets
enron ' s financial troubles reverberate to bonds with poor liquidity and credit - rating concerns
by jathon sapsford and suzanne mcgee
staff reporters of the wall street journal
10 / 26 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl 5
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - - enron corp . ' s bonds have held up better than its battered stock amid escalating financial woes at the energy - trading powerhouse .
not for long , some bond traders say .
in trading yesterday , the houston company ' s five - year bond , a $ 250 million issue due in july 2006 carrying a coupon of 6 . 4 % , was quoted at 82 cents on the dollar , down from a bid of 88 late wednesday , and representing a 16 % drop during the past two weeks .
that is far less than the 50 % decline in enron ' s stock price since the oct . 16 disclosure of a $ 1 . 01 billion charge linked to soured investments , resulting in a $ 618 million third - quarter loss . but the fall in the bond ' s price translates to a yield of 7 . 7 percentage points above bellwether u . s . government bonds , which is a widening from about three percentage points two weeks ago . although enron still is an investment - grade credit , that kind of " spread " is more characteristic of a junk bond with a credit rating of single b or lower .
enron sought to assure the markets that its finances were sound , disclosing late yesterday that it drew down more than $ 1 billion on its bank credit lines to shore up its finances . yet even as enron was tapping its lifeline , investors were finding it difficult to trade big blocks of enron bonds . yesterday ' s 82 bid , for instance , was for a block of less than $ 2 million in bonds , a small percentage of a typical trade .
fueling the uncertainty surrounding enron were fears that credit - rating concerns will lower ratings on enron debt after it recently conceded a slew of troubles , including losses , a securities and exchange commission investigation , and the sudden resignation of its chief financial officer .
" even at these levels , there ' s very little buying interest , " said harold rivkin , a principal at distressed - debt trader h . rivkin & co . in princeton , n . j .
in one sign of the ripple effects , the price investors pay to protect themselves from losses on enron debt was surging . the cost of a " default swap " - - in which an investor pays another investor to take a chunk of debt at face value in the event of default - - rose to 10 % of the size of the credit being insured . that was up from 8 % a day earlier , and more than holders of lucent technologies inc . debt had to pay at the height of that technology company ' s troubles earlier during the year .
even with its woes , enron remains an investment - grade company . most credit - rating agencies rate enron ' s senior unsecured debt at several notches above the noninvestment - grade level .
yet fitch said yesterday it put enron ' s credit rating on watch for a possible downgrade , following a similar move by moody ' s investors service last week . ( standard & poor ' s , a division of mcgraw hill cos . , stopped short of putting the company on its creditwatch list , opting instead to revise its long - term ratings outlook to " negative , " citing concerns about the company ' s financial flexibility . )
meanwhile , the weak bond prices are a sign that the markets are bracing for the worst . " these are investment - grade bonds that are migrating toward distressed levels , " said glenn reynolds , an analyst at credit sights inc . , an independent fixed - income research firm in new york . " they aren ' t distressed yet , but they are headed in that direction . "
if enron ' s credit ratings fall , it would have implications far beyond the company ' s ability to raise money . for an energy trader , a credit downgrade sends a signal to other participants in crucial markets about its ability to make good on its commitments .
enron makes markets in a variety of commodities . though it is best known for trading electricity and natural gas , the company also is a huge force in the markets for other commodities such as lumber , metals , bandwidth capacity and steel . as a market maker matching buyers and sellers , enron handles about a quarter of all the trading in the nation ' s energy and gas markets .
enron ' s credit - worthiness is hugely important . the better its credit rating , the cheaper it can hedge , or offset , its positions in all these commodities markets through derivatives and pass on savings to customers . without that credit rating , the cost of this high - margin , high - volume business starts to rise . a derivative is an instrument whose value is linked to , or derived from , that of an underlying security or asset , such as a stock , bond or commodity .
" even if the company does retain its investment - grade rating , the perception that this might be at risk will start to affect their core businesses , " said mr . reynolds at credit sights inc . " any prudent risk [ manager ] at enron ' s counterparties " - - any institution on the other end of a financial agreement with enron - - " is going to be examining their exposure to enron , and looking for ways to minimize it or offset it , " mr . reynolds said .
to be sure , enron , despite its recent woes , remains a strong company , credit analysts said . " i don ' t think anyone ' s seriously thinking that this is a company that would ever default , " mr . reynolds said .
" so far , our research shows that their counterparties and their banks are sticking with them , " said ron barone , managing director of standard & poor ' s utility energy project finance group . " no one has cut credit lines or asked for additional collateral that we have identified . and customers have publicly stated that it ' s business as usual . "
yet analysts say the arrival of distressed - debt traders on the scene could make life more difficult for enron and its management . traders expect enron ' s new chief financial officer jeffrey mcmahon and chairman kenneth lay to make the rounds of wall street next week , meeting with rating agencies , debt - trading desks , big bond holders and banks , including j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup inc .
treasurys
treasurys rallied on optimism that the federal reserve may cut interest rates more than previously expected after a spate of economic reports that documented how weak the economy was after the sept . 11 terrorist attacks .
prices also gained as the market finished digesting the week ' s flood of treasury , corporate and agency debt issues .
at 4 p . m . edt , the benchmark 10 - year treasury note was up 13 / 32 point , or $ 4 . 0625 per $ 1 , 000 face value , at 103 20 / 32 . its yield fell to 4 . 537 % from 4 . 588 % wednesday , as yields move inversely to prices .
the 30 - year treasury bond ' s price was up 22 / 32 point at 101 11 / 32 to yield 5 . 284 % , down from 5 . 330 % wednesday .
fed policy makers are slated to meet on nov . 6 . also providing support for longer maturities , the treasury department made another repurchase of issues outstanding . it received offers for $ 5 . 04 billion in callable 30 - year bonds , of which it accepted $ 1 billion . the offer - to - cover ratio , an indication of demand , was 5 . 04 .
treasury buyback
par par high wtd avg
coupon mat amt amt accept accept
% date offer accept price price
7 . 125 02 / 23 807 0 n / a n / a
11 . 750 02 / 10 235 0 n / a n / a
10 . 000 05 / 10 490 0 n / a n / a
12 . 750 11 / 10 471 0 n / a n / a
13 . 875 05 / 11 104 0 n / a n / a
14 . 000 11 / 11 203 0 n / a n / a
10 . 375 11 / 12 587 0 n / a n / a
12 . 000 08 / 13 974 0 n / a n / a
13 . 250 05 / 14 473 0 n / a n / a
12 . 500 08 / 14 725 39 3152 . 20 152 . 19
11 . 750 11 / 14 7826 0 7148 . 25 148 . 13
amounts in millions , prices in decimals .
* amount outstanding after operation . calculated using amounts
reported on announcement .
corporate bonds
motorola inc . ' s offering of three - year mandatory convertible securities , expected late yesterday was boosted from a planned $ 875 million and could total as much as $ 1 . 15 billion ( proceeds ) if investors exercise their overallotment option .
the securities were expected to have a dividend of between 6 . 75 % and 7 % and a conversion premium of 20 % to 22 % . earlier indications were a dividend of 7 % to 7 . 5 % and a conversion premium of 18 % to 22 % . the deal was to come through goldman sachs , j . p . morgan chase and salomon smith barney .
separately , lsi logic corp . repriced an offering of $ 450 million of five - year convertible subordinated notes , lowering the price to 99 from par , people familiar with the rule 144 a private placement said .
the notes have a 4 % coupon and a 41 % conversion premium and now offer a yield - to - maturity of 4 . 22 % . they were quoted lower at 98 1 / 2 early yesterday , a sign that the deal wasn ' t well - received after being brought overnight by lehman brothers .
- - -
john parry and tom barkley contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
heard on the street
most analysts remain plugged in to enron
by susanne craig and jonathan weil
staff reporters of the wall street journal
10 / 26 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron : rarely have so many analysts liked a stock they concede they know so little about .
in recent years , wall street researchers have been overwhelmingly - - critics would say blindly - - enthusiastic about enron , even as they acknowledge not always understanding the complex financial transactions that accounted for its soaring profits . now , enron is reporting steep losses from some of its most complicated transactions , which many on wall street still can ' t figure out .
in a research note wednesday , goldman sachs analyst david fleischer conceded that scant corporate disclosure at the houston energy trader makes it difficult to value the company . the company ' s " lack of disclosure and transparency , " he says , is " a longstanding enron hallmark . "
so is this a stock to avoid , in his view ? hardly . goldman on wednesday did bump enron off its " u . s . select list , " which consists of a few dozen top stock picks - - but mr . fleischer continued to keep the stock on the firm ' s larger but prestigious " recommended list " of 200 or so favored stocks , where it has been since he joined goldman in 1993 .
" just because i can ' t be specific in being able to create a simple model . . . doesn ' t mean that you write off that industry and say ` i can ' t analyze it ' or ` i can ' t figure it out , ' " says mr . fleischer , who owns an undisclosed number of enron shares . " if that were the case , there would be an awful lot of industries we couldn ' t follow . "
enron ' s shares have dropped about 50 % since last week .
" every sell - side analyst we spoke to early in 2001 admitted that this was a black box , " says jim chanos , principal of kynikos associates in new york , who has been selling enron stock short - - trading it with an eye to profiting from its fall - - throughout this year . " it was really a trust - me story , when all the evidence was mounting that there was reason to question that level of trust . "
true , no stock picker is immune from bad calls . and wall street analysts long have been criticized for their overwhelmingly bullish bias , particularly on stocks in hot sectors with lots of investment - banking deals to be had .
but enron stands apart , precisely because so many of the analysts still recommending the stock have acknowledged that the company ' s disclosure practices are lacking . which raises the question : how can an analyst recommend that others purchase a stock when key information about the company ' s operations is so often either unavailable or indecipherable ?
concerns about the way that enron runs its business aren ' t new . many of the issues now plaguing enron ' s stock were first raised more than a year ago by bearish hedge - fund managers and independent accounting experts . yet time and again , wall street analysts dismissed as unimportant many of the lingering questions about the company ' s various partnership transactions .
besides those partnerships , enron also has been dogged by concerns about the secretive valuation techniques it uses to record its assets and earnings .
through it all , most analysts have stuck by this onetime stock - market darling , publicly dismissing questions about the firm ' s accounting practices and level of disclosure . as of yesterday , of the 17 analysts who following the stock , 10 had a " strong buy " or equivalent rating on the stock , according to thomson financial / first call . five others rated the stock a " buy , " though not strongly .
only prudential securities , which downgraded the stock this week , has a " sell " rating on enron .
the bullish treatment is the latest and one of the most high - profile examples of wall street taking a glass half - full stance , despite what in retrospect seems to be ample warning that a less - enthusiastic approach was warranted .
over the past year in the wake of the nasdaq composite index ' s general collapse , analysts have been widely assailed for a lack of independence - - particularly those who , like goldman ' s mr . fleischer , own shares in the companies they cover . regulators have raised concerns that analysts have compromised themselves to help their firms land lucrative investment - banking fees and other revenue .
enron has spread the wealth across many wall street firms . for instance , for one $ 865 million equity offering in 1999 led by ` credit suisse first boston , enron retained seven co - managers , including donaldson lufkin & jenrette , lehman brothers and merrill lynch .
" enron is a big company , and i don ' t think you ' re going to find a firm that hasn ' t been involved , " says credit suisse first boston analyst curt launer , who still rates the stock a " strong buy " with a $ 40 price target . " they pay a lot of investment - banking fees to wall street . "
he adds , " we do our analysis every day based on the information we have . are we here strictly to defend companies ? that ' s ludicrous . we ' re here to provide information to investors . . . . yes , i have the wrong recommendation on the stock . i don ' t think my analysis has been as wrong as the stock has performed . "
mr . fleischer , whose firm also has served as an investment banker to enron , calls his holding " a meaningful investment " that is " not small . " but he disputes any suggestion that his objectivity is compromised . mr . fleischer says his clients " are happy to know " he has a stake in enron , because it shows he puts his money where his mouth is .
in his research note wednesday , mr . fleischer called for complete disclosures of enron ' s off - balance sheet partnerships . despite the resulting difficulty he acknowledged facing in developing financial models for the company , he wrote that he and many other investors historically " have given enron the benefit of doubt because of its strong growth in earnings " and position as an industry leader .
" there ' s not information to really model this and be able to predict accurately where revenues are going to come from and where they ' re going to make their money , but every quarter they do , " he says . " it ' s hard to get inside to know all the transactions , but they do deliver . "
csfb ' s mr . launer also has been a longtime defender of the company , occasionally issuing research reports to rebut critical stories about enron in the financial press . on monday , he wrote that he expects questions about enron ' s partnerships and accounting disclosures to continue , but that he remains " confident in the businesses and operating growth prospects for [ enron ] and an ultimate recovery in the share price . "
" i know i ' m wrong on the stock , " mr . launer says . but he says that at these prices , he isn ' t ready to throw in the towel because he figures that even in a worst - case scenario - - under which he envisions enron having to issue as much as $ 2 billion worth of shares , diluting current holders - - the stock doesn ' t have much further to fall .
clearly , messrs . launer and flesicher aren ' t alone . " even in relative terms , analysts remain very bullish on this stock , " says chuck hill , director of research at thomson financial / first call . the average rating for a stock on wall street is 2 . 2 , or slightly shy of a " buy " rating . enron scores a 1 . 6 . " this may turn into a classic case of locking the barn door after the bad news is out , " mr . hill says .
in downgrading the stock this week , prudential analyst carol coale bumped it to " sell " from " buy , " with a brief stop at " hold . " while she is the only analyst to recommend investors sell the stock , she openly concedes her recent downgrades come " too little , too late . "
ms . coale says enron has been difficult to cover for years . she says the company ' s disclosure practices fall far short of ideal , and senior executives are often evasive , even when presented with direct questions . for instance , she says three weeks ago she asked enron management if the company was under investigation by the securities and exchange commission . they said " no , " she says .
in light of the company ' s acknowledgment this week of an sec " inquiry , " she asked enron about the previous denial . " they told me it is an inquiry , not an investigation , " she says . an enron spokeswoman says the company learned of the sec ' s inquiry only last wednesday .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron draws down $ 3 bln in credit to boost investor confidence
2001 - 10 - 26 08 : 52 ( new york )
enron draws down $ 3 bln in credit to boost investor confidence
houston , oct . 26 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . , whose stock has
fallen on concern about the largest energy trader ' s transactions
with affiliates , drew down $ 3 billion in credit to restore
confidence in its financial strength .
the houston - based company will use about $ 2 . 2 billion to pay
off commercial paper obligations and keep the rest as cash ,
spokesman mark palmer said .
` ` nothing instils confidence like cash , ' ' he said .
enron ' s shares have dropped 52 percent in the past 10 days as
investors worry that the company ' s credit rating will be cut after
$ 1 . 01 billion in third - quarter losses from failed investments .
enron needs good credit to raise cash daily to keep trading
partners from demanding collateral and to settle transactions .
investors say they are worried about $ 3 . 3 billion in
liabilities from affiliates formed to buy and sell enron assets .
enron ousted chief financial officer andrew fastow on wednesday
amid a securities and exchange commission inquiry into
partnerships he ran that cost the company $ 35 million .
jeff mcmahon , head of enron ' s industrial markets group , was
named cfo in a bid to restore investor confidence , chairman and
chief executive officer kenneth lay said in a statement .
enron shares fell 6 cents to $ 16 . 35 yesterday .
- - mark johnson in the princeton newsroom ( 609 ) 750 - 4662 , or at
enron liked by analysts despite complicated dealings , wsj says
2001 - 10 - 26 06 : 12 ( new york )
houston , oct . 26 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . is liked by many
wall street analysts despite lingering questions about the power
trading company ' s complicated partnership transactions and the
techniques used to record earnings , the wall street journal
reported in its ` ` heard on the street ' ' column .
goldman sachs group inc . analyst david fleischer , who owns an
undisclosed number of enron shares , said that even though
inadequate corporate disclosure makes it difficult to value the
company , that doesn ' t mean he will write off the industry or not
analyze enron .
of the 17 analysts who follow the stock , 10 had a ` ` strong
buy ' ' or equivalent rating , according to thomson financial / first
call , the paper said . five rated it ` ` buy ' ' and one had a ` ` sell ' '
on enron .
most analysts have stuck by the company , publicly dismissing
questions about enron ' s accounting practices and level of
disclosure , the journal said .
the securities and exchange commission is inquiring about
partnerships run by former chief financial officer andrew fastow .
enron draws down $ 3 billion from its credit lines , wsj reports
2001 - 10 - 26 00 : 28 ( new york )
new york , oct . 26 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . drew down about
$ 3 billion of its available credit , the bulk of its bank credit
lines , to restore confidence in the financial strength of the
company , the wall street journal repor