Subject: enron mentions
enron discusses credit line of $ 1 billion to $ 2 billion with banks
the wall street journal , 10 / 29 / 01
manager ' s journal : how enron ran out of gas
the wall street journal , 10 / 29 / 01
enron seeks additional financing
the new york times , 10 / 29 / 01
global investing : enron stock plunge deals a heavy blow to mutual funds
financial times ; oct 29 , 2001
comment & analysis - enron flickers .
financial times , 10 / 29 / 01
front page - companies reportedly for 1 - 2 bln usd
afx ( ap ) , 10 / 29 / 01
enron said seeking new credit lines
american banker , 10 / 29 / 01
usa : enron in talks for $ 1 - 2 bln credit line - wsj .
reuters english news service , 10 / 29 / 01
japan : japan ' s teijin , enron study coal - fired power plant .
reuters english news service , 10 / 29 / 01
enron , teijin to build power plant in japan , report says
bloomberg , 10 / 29 / 01
once - mighty enron strains under scrutiny
the new york times , 10 / 28 / 01
plumbing mystery of deals by enron
the new york times , 10 / 28 / 01
investors seem to ignore discouraging news
the new york times , 10 / 28 / 01
enron asks banks for more credit after stock slide , ft reports
bloomberg , 10 / 28 / 2001
enron asks banks for additional credit - ft
dow jones energy service , 10 / 28 / 01
week in review top stories oct . 22 - 26 lockheed edges out boeing for contract
los angeles times , 10 / 28 / 01
devon energy makes building its own with major lease
houston chronicle , 10 / 28 / 01
india press : enron plans to exit lng shipping jv
dow jones international news , 10 / 28 / 01
enron taps all its credit lines to buy back $ 3 . 3 billion of debt
the new york times , 10 / 27 / 01
companies stock slides
associated press newswires , 10 / 27 / 01
enron decline continues
los angeles times , 10 / 27 / 01
enron taps credit line ; stock slides / company says cash will boost confidence
houston chronicle , 10 / 27 / 01
enron says microsoft breached contract
houston chronicle , 10 / 27 / 01
how to lose a war
the new york times , 10 / 27 / 01
city - enron directors cash in shares .
the daily telegraph , 10 / 27 / 01
india : lenders to meet over enron ' s dabhol on nov 3 .
reuters english news service , 10 / 27 / 01
enron sues microsoft for breach of contract ; move could block high - speed service
the seattle times , 10 / 27 / 01
enron discusses credit line of $ 1 billion to $ 2 billion with banks
by jathon sapsford and john emshwiller
staff reporters of the wall street journal
10 / 29 / 2001
the wall street journal
al 0
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . , scrambling to restore confidence in its finances , is negotiating with banks for a new credit line of between $ 1 billion and $ 2 billion , and is likely to close a deal within days , according to officials familiar with the matter .
the new credit line is intended to bolster enron ' s financial condition and head off a potentially devastating loss of investor and business confidence . the new credit would supplement existing lines , which are largely tapped out after enron last week drew down about $ 3 billion to increase cash reserves and calm fears in the stock , bond and energy markets .
an enron spokesman confirmed that the company is negotiating a new credit line , but said he couldn ' t supply any further details .
houston - based enron is the nation ' s biggest energy trader and a principal in nearly one - quarter of all electricity and natural - gas trades . once a favorite of wall street , the company now is in the unfamiliar position of convincing a deeply concerned investment community that , despite difficulties , its finances remain sound .
confidence in enron ' s financial situation was shaken after enron earlier this month announced a $ 618 million third - quarter loss and disclosed a $ 1 . 2 billion erosion of shareholder equity related to controversial transactions it had done with entities connected to its then - chief financial officer , andrew fastow .
last week , enron replaced mr . fastow and said that the securities and exchange commission was looking into the transactions . the company has consistently said that the transactions were proper and legal .
enron ' s stock price fell again friday . as of 4 p . m . , in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , enron shares were down 95 cents at $ 15 . 40 . enron shares have fallen 50 % in the past two weeks and are down 83 % from a sept . 18 , 2000 , high of $ 89 . 63 .
late last week , enron tapped its existing credit lines , with part of that money being used to redeem nearly $ 2 billion of its outstanding commercial paper , or short - term corporate ious . ron barone of credit - rating agency standard & poor ' s said he believes that enron was " getting a bit more resistance " recently in rolling over its commercial paper as it came due . thus , enron probably decided it would be easier simply to redeem the paper outstanding , he said .
the enron spokesman yesterday said that paying off the commercial paper and still leaving the company with an additional roughly $ 1 billion cash on hand would give it more financial flexibility .
also last week , credit - rating agencies warned investors they were reviewing enron ' s debt and commercial - paper ratings for a possible downgrade . a lower rating could hamper enron ' s core trading businesses .
behind the worries among these agencies , in part , is the loss of investor confidence , which one of the rating companies , fitch , said in a report last week could impair " enron ' s financial flexibility and access to capital markets , therefore impacting its ability to conduct its business . "
the enron spokesman said yesterday that the company ' s trading partners are doing business with enron on " essentially the same terms " as they have in the past . " there has been no significant change in the credit conditions , " he said . trading partners demanding significantly stricter terms from enron would be a sign of further deteriorating confidence in the energy giant ' s finances .
the banks involved in the current negotiations , including j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup inc . , are asking enron for stricter covenants on the new credit line than they had asked for in the past , one official said .
bankers involved with the company say the goal of the new credit line is to show the investment community that enron can meet its commitments . " confidence in this company was lost , " said one bank official involved in the negotiations for a new credit line . " but confidence will be restored . "
corporations of enron ' s size commonly establish credit lines only to demonstrate to the investment community that in case of an emergency , they have access to cash . in practice , few companies actually make use of these lines . thus , drawing down credit lines , while providing immediate cash , also illustrates the pressure enron is feeling .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
manager ' s journal : how enron ran out of gas
by paul kedrosky
10 / 29 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 22
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
is troubled enron corp . the long term capital management of the energy markets , or merely yet another mismanaged company whose executives read too many of their own press releases ? or is poor enron just misunderstood ? those are the questions after another week of chinese water torture financial releases from the beleaguered houston - based energy concern .
a year ago enron was the hottest of the hot . while tech stocks were tanking , enron ' s shares gained 89 % during 2000 . even die - hard enron skeptics - - of which there are many - - had to concede that last year was a barnburner for the company . earnings were up 25 % , and revenues more than doubled .
not bad , considering where the company came from . a decade ago 80 % of enron ' s revenues came from the staid ( and regulated ) gas - pipeline business . no longer . enron has been selling those assets steadily , partly fuelling revenues , but also expanding into new areas . by 2000 , around 95 % of its revenues and more than 80 % of its profits came from trading energy , and buying and selling stakes in energy producers .
the stock market applauded the move : at its peak , enron was trading at around 55 times earnings . that ' s more like cisco ' s once tropospheric valuation than the meager 2 . 5 times earnings the market affords enron competitor duke energy .
but enron management wanted more . it was , after all , a " new economy " web - based energy trader where aggressive performers were lucratively rewarded . according to enron chairman and ceo ken lay , the company deserved to be valued accordingly . at a conference early this year he told investors the company ' s stock should be trading much higher - - say $ 126 , more than double its price then .
then the new economy motor stalled . the company ' s president left under strange circumstances . and rumors swirled about enron ' s machinations in california ' s energy markets . investors pored over enron ' s weakening financial statements . but enron analysts must have the energy and persistence of talmudic scholars to penetrate the company ' s cryptic financials . in effect , enron ' s troubles were hiding in plain sight .
it should have been a warning . because of the poor financial disclosure there was no way to assess the damage the economy was doing to the company , or how it was trying to make its numbers . most analysts blithely concede that they really didn ' t know how enron made money - - in good markets or bad .
not that enron didn ' t make money , it did - - albeit with a worrisomely low return on equity given the capital required - - but sometimes revenues came from asset sales and complex off - balance sheet transactions , sometimes from energy - trading revenues . and it was very difficult to understand why or how - - or how likely it was enron could do it again next quarter .
enron ' s financial inscrutability hid stranger stuff . deep inside the company filings was mention of ljm cayman , l . p . , a private investment partnership . according to enron ' s march 2000 10 - k , a " senior officer of enron is the managing member " of ljm . well , that was a puzzler . ljm was helping enron " manage price and value risk with regard to certain merchant and similar assets by entering into derivatives , including swaps , puts , and collars . " it was , in a phrase , enron ' s house hedge fund .
there is nothing wrong with hedging positions in the volatile energy market - - it is crucial for a market - maker . but having an enron executive managing and benefiting from the hedging is something else altogether , especially when the enron executive was the company ' s cfo , andrew fastow . while he severed his connection with ljm ( and related partnerships ) in july of this year - - and left enron in a whirl of confusion last week - - the damage had been done .
as stories in this paper have since made clear , mr . fastow ' s ljm partnership allegedly made millions from the conflict - ridden , board - approved ljm - enron relationship . and recently enron ended the merry affair , taking a billion - dollar writedown against equity two weeks ago over some of ljm ' s wrong - footed hedging . analysts , investors , and the securities & exchange commission were left with many questions , and very few answers .
to be fair , i suppose , enron did disclose the ljm arrangement more than a year ago , saying it had erected a chinese wall between fastow / ljm and the company . and in a bull market , no one paid much attention to what a bad idea that horribly conflicted relationship was - - or questioned the strength of the wall . now it matters , as do other enron - hedged financings , a number of which look to have insufficient assets to cover debt repayments due in 2003 .
we didn ' t do anything wrong is mr . lay ' s refrain in the company ' s current round of entertainingly antagonistic conference calls . that remains to be seen , but at the very least the company has shown terrible judgment , and heroic arrogance in its dismissal of shareholders interests and financial transparency .
where has enron ' s board of directors been through all of this ? what kind of oversight has this motley collection of academics , government sorts , and retired executives exercised for enron shareholders ? very little , it seems . it is time enron ' s board did a proper investigation , and then cleaned house - - perhaps neatly finishing with themselves .
- - -
mr . kedrosky is a professor of business at the university of british colombia .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section a
enron seeks additional financing
by richard a . oppel jr .
10 / 29 / 2001
the new york times
page 9 , column 4
c . 2001 new york times company
dallas , oct . 28 - - the enron corporation , still struggling to reassure investors it can weather a financial crisis over complicated transactions involving its former chief financial officer , is seeking $ 1 billion to $ 2 billion in additional financing from banks , an industry official said today .
last week , enron , the nation ' s largest energy - trading concern , used about $ 3 billion in available credit lines and spent about $ 2 billion to pay off commercial paper . now , by obtaining even more financing , enron is hoping to convince investors and other energy - trading firms that it will not face a cash squeeze that could lead trading partners to refuse to extend credit or do business with it .
enron ' s board , which has been holding meetings by telephone over the last two weeks to monitor the company ' s financial situation , held another meeting this afternoon . ' ' the board is meeting frequently and will announce any actions when appropriate , ' ' an enron spokesman said .
two weeks ago , enron disclosed that its shareholder equity had been reduced by $ 1 . 2 billion because of deals with investment partnerships involving its former chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow , who was ousted last week . the company also disclosed about $ 1 billion in separate write - offs , and it said last week that the securities and exchange commission had made an inquiry into its financial accounting .
enron hopes to maintain its investment - grade credit rating , which is crucial to ensuring that other energy traders continue to do business with it . lately , enron ' s bonds have been trading at prices more like junk bonds , and two major credit - rating agencies are considering whether to downgrade the company ' s rating .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones oct 29 , 2001
by agencies : agency material and elizabeth wine
enron shares plunged 40 per cent in the last week , doing severe damage to mutual funds , the company ' s largest institutional ownership bloc , and the havoc may continue .
more than 15 per cent of the 4 , 000 us equity funds held shares in the embattled company ' s shares as of the most recent reporting period , according to fund tracker morningstar .
mutual funds held a fifth of enron ' s shares , but that percentage is likely to be much lower now , say fund analysts , who suggest much of the stock ' s halving in october is due to large sales by institutional holders .
janus , the growth fund specialist , was the largest institutional shareholder according to the most recent filings , dated june 30 , with more than 42 m shares representing a stake worth dollars 2 . 1 bn .
the stake - if still held in its entirety - would be worth dollars 659 m at friday ' s closing price of dollars 15 . 40 . enron shares dropped 95 cents , or 5 . 81 per cent on friday , taking its total fall to nearly 41 per cent last week on concerns over accounting questions and some limited partnerships created by andrew fastow , former chief financial officer . on friday , several leading rating agencies put the company ' s debt on credit watches , and enron bond prices plunged . the company ' s stock is down 81 per cent since january .
most fund managers , including those at janus , refuse to discuss a company in which they are actively trading . however , several mutual fund groups with large enron stakes have said their listed positions are " dated " , implying that the funds ' positions in the company have changed .
morningstar analyst christine benz , who follows the janus funds , said managers of the group ' s larger funds had been " lightening up " their enron holdings this year . she said blaine rollins , who manages the dollars 23 bn flagship janus fund , said that in september he had sold some of his stake - listed as 2 . 15 per cent of outstanding shares as of april 30 - but did not say when .
ken zschappel , manager of the dollars 11 bn aim constellation fund , also declined to discuss his holdings , listed as 0 . 27 per cent of outstanding shares as of march 31 . but aim said the position had since been " trimmed substantially " .
other top fund owners , as of the most recent filings , included the alliance premier growth fund , the janus twenty , janus mercury and janus growth & income funds , fidelity magellan , axp new dimensions fund , putnam investors , putnam voyager and putnam new opportunities funds and morgan stanley dividend growth fund .
copyright : the financial times limited
comment & analysis - enron flickers .
by simon london and sheila mcnulty .
10 / 29 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
comment & analysis - enron flickers - once a paragon of the new economy , the us energy group is under scrutiny for its opaque accounting and free - wheeling management , write simon london and sheila mcnulty .
enron has some explaining to do . for the past decade or more , the texas - based company has basked in the admiration of investors and business school professors eager to understand its transformation from staid utility to fast - growing energy trader . now it faces scrutiny of a more unwelcome kind .
its share price has been falling since the beginning of this year . the us securities and exchange commission is investigating multi - million dollar deals with a private equity fund associated with its own chief financial officer , which resulted in a $ 1 . 2 bn reduction in shareholders ' equity . a hastily - convened conference call last week with analysts raised as many questions as it answered about these " related - party transactions " . the departure of andy fastow , the aforementioned cfo , soon followed .
with its credit rating under review by two leading ratings agencies , enron has also been forced to draw down bank credit lines . yesterday if confirmed it was trying to establish additional lines of liquidity .
" this marks the end of enron ' s walk on the wild side , " observes curt launer , an analyst with credit suisse first boston , the investment bank .
on the surface , events at enron can be explained by the combination of deteriorating trading conditions , a complex capital structure and poor investor relations . but the root causes go back further . the entrepreneurial culture and dynamic management that fuelled enron ' s growth in the 1990 s appear to have also sown some of the seeds of the present crisis . therein may lie a cautionary tale for all executives trying to sprinkle " new economy " magic on to old economy companies .
enron ' s transformation began in earnest in 1990 with the arrival of jeffrey skilling , who was hired from mckinsey , the management consulting firm , to develop energy trading .
for the previous decade enron had been emerging as a force in the deregulating us energy markets under the guidance of kenneth lay , a former deputy under - secretary of energy . mr lay remains chairman . but it was mr skilling who spearheaded the move into trading energy as well as generating and supplying it .
the two sides of the business - trading and generation / supply - have always been strange bedfellows . the former demands an entrepreneurial spirit more likely to be found on wall street than in a utility . mr skilling ' s answer in the early 1990 s was to bring in talent from outside the company . one of his first recruits was mr fastow , an expert in securitisation , the repackaging of financial assets so they can be traded in financial markets .
the energy trading division tried from the start to differentiate itself . a management structure was introduced with only four layers - vice - president , director , manager and associate / analyst - much like a consulting firm . employees were free to take as much holiday as they liked , so long as they delivered results . as one of mr skilling ' s early recruits recalled : " it was all about creating an atmosphere and deliberately breaking the rules . "
the seemingly free - wheeling style was based on a " loose - tight " management model expounded by tom peters and bob waterman , the management writers and mckinsey alumni . at enron this meant that employees in the merchant energy business were encouraged by huge bonuses to pursue new ideas and innovate in existing markets .
up - and - coming employees moved freely between projects in pursuit of glory . louise kitchen , the 32 - year - old british executive who was the creative force behind enron online , the group ' s internet - based trading platform , changed jobs or was promoted seven times in five years .
balancing these loose management practices were tight central control of risk , legal commitments , finance and performance evaluation / remuneration . mr skilling once described the approach in this way : " as long as you clear your deals or business ideas through those screens , you can do whatever you want around here . "
this approach did deliver growth and innovation . as well as making markets in its core energy products , enron now trades everything from weather derivatives - which enable companies to insure themselves against unfavourable climatic conditions - to broadband telecommunications capacity and metals . the success of enron online allows the group to describe itself as the world ' s leading e - commerce company .
it has also started marketing electricity to us consumers through a joint venture with international business machines and america online , the internet service provider .
in february this year mr skilling got his reward : he became chief executive of a group ranked seventh in fortune magazine ' s list of the 500 most powerful us corporations - ahead of such corporate giants as ibm , at & t , bank of america and boeing .
in retrospect , however , this breakneck pace of growth and innovation was achieved at a price . first was the personal cost to mr skilling . in august he abruptly resigned after only six months in the top job . personal , non - health related reasons were cited and investors have received no further explanation .
a second cost was an enormous increase in financial complexity . in order to avoid a ballooning of assets and liabilities as the group expanded , enron used a range of off - balance sheet vehicles to help finance expansion . ljm , the private equity fund in which mr fastow played a role , is just one of a cast of characters to be found in the footnotes to enron ' s accounts . other financing vehicles include osprey , marlin , whitewing , atlantic water trust and azurix . " they went after too many things too quickly , " says stephen moore of moody ' s investors service , the credit ratings agency .
a third cost , associated with the last , was a loss of financial transparency . the group ' s extensive use of swaps , options and other derivative financial instruments in its merchant energy business means that investors have little idea of how enron actually makes its money - or the underlying risks to which it is exposed .
david fleischer , an analyst at goldman sachs , summed up the views of many investors during last week ' s conference call . he told the group ' s management : " the company ' s credibility is being severely questioned and there is a need for much more disclosure . there is an appearance that you are hiding something or that there is something going on beneath the surface that may be questionable . "
the fourth cost was a loss of strategic focus . " the problems , in our view , stem from enron venturing too aggressively in areas outside of its core skills , " argues raymond niles , analyst at salomon smith barney . " power plants in india , water companies , extension of their franchise to the mass retail market , and using a fibre - optic network to deliver content over the internet are all unrelated , or only tangentially related , to their core merchant energy business . "
enron executives also appeared to get carried away with the prospects for some of these ventures . this time last year mr skilling was arguing that enron broadband was a business worth $ 35 bn ( # 24 bn ) in its own right . this helped push the share price to all - time highs - and storing up trouble when trading volumes failed to materialise .
" they over - promised on the new business they created , " says chris bartlett , a professor at harvard business school and long - time watcher of the company . " enron was trying to ride the dotcom bubble with enron online and the broadband business . to some extent they are now paying the price . "
will enron weather the storm ? notwithstanding the risk of further out - of - the - blue financial shocks , most analysts believe that it will . the merchant energy business remains powerful and profitable . mr niles at salomon smith barney points out that this side of the group drives more than 80 per cent of earnings and has shown consistent 30 - 40 per cent annual growth over the past three years . assets totalling more than $ 4 bn were also earmarked for disposal before the current crisis erupted , underlining that there is plenty of realisable value within the group ' s portfolio of physical energy assets .
and yet the doubts remain . it is , ultimately , a question of confidence and credibility . investors suspect that the balance between loose and tight management methods has tilted too far towards the former . mr lay and his team will have to tighten up .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
front page - companies & markets - enron asks banks for additional credit .
by sheila mcnulty and gary silverman .
10 / 29 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
enron , the troubled us energy group , was attempting yesterday to persuade banks to provide additional credit to bolster its position after a sharp fall in its share price .
the houston - based company was also due last night to hold a special board meeting to consider confidence - building measures after surprise financial disclosures damaged its reputation among us investors .
last week the company raised $ 3 . 3 bn ( euros 3 . 7 bn ) in cash to bolster its financial position but enron admitted yesterday that it was still looking for additional finance . the company insisted , however , that it was in good financial health and that its core energy trading business remained strong .
mark palmer , an enron spokesman , said he hoped the company would have something to announce in coming days from its latest effort to " establish additional lines of liquidity " . " once we are able to get the liquidity position shored up , that will put a lot of fears of the unknown to rest , " mr palmer said .
the company ' s problems have become public since an announcement on october 16 that it would take a $ 1 . 01 bn special charge and write down shareholders ' equity by another $ 1 . 2 bn . the moves followed losses arising from a private equity operation run by andrew fastow , its former chief financial officer , who was forced to take a leave of absence last week .
enron ' s share price has fallen more than 50 per cent since the october 16 announcement and its bonds have been trading at levels that are technically " junk " status , though its official ratings are still investment grade .
" our concern is that a reduction in the debt rating could impair their ability to operate their trading and marketing operations , " said raymond niles of salomon smith barney . " these activities require at least an investment grade credit rating , or enron could be subject to an increase in margin requirements . "
the controversy over enron ' s balance sheet adjustment has resulted in a request for information from the securities and exchange commission . enron flickers , page 22 .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron seeks further credit to reassure investors , wsj says
2001 - 10 - 29 04 : 30 ( new york )
houston , oct . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . , the largest
energy trader , asked banks to provide a further credit line of as
much as $ 2 billion in a bid to restore investor confidence in the
company , the wall street journal reported , citing unidentified
officials close to negotiations .
the new credit line is additional to the $ 3 . 3 billion credit
line it tapped last week , the paper said , and should be completed
within days .
investors have shunned the company since oct . 16 when enron
reported a third quarter loss of $ 618 million and wrote down
shareholders ' equity by another $ 1 . 2 billion , the journal said .
the stock has fallen by 54 percent since the announcement .
the company ' s shares were further dented after an investor
sued enron last month , saying dealings with two partnerships run
by former chief financial officer andrew fastow , cost the company
$ 35 million . the suit also called fastow ' s leadership of the
partnerships , set up to cut enron ' s debt , a conflict of interest .
usa : repeat - electric cowboys get roped in at the energy corral .
by janet mcgurty
10 / 29 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
new york , oct 26 ( reuters ) - last year , enron corp . was a darling of investors and analysts , but the freewheeling trader of electricity and natural gas now faces a credibility crisis due to a lack of transparency in its business dealings .
enron , trying to shake investor jitters over a possible downgrade of its credit worthiness and their unease over the company ' s complex financial transactions , has seen its shares shed more than half their market value in the past week .
but the largest natural gas and electricity marketer in the united states is not alone in getting its wings clipped as energy prices come down and the market volatility that drove earnings last year eases .
while enron ' s problems differ from more traditional utilities , many other power producers are returning to their roots . they are scrapping plans for splitting operations and questioning whether more risky overseas operations can be supported by lower prices brought on by a slowing economy .
paul patterson , an energy analyst with abn amro , said there are common themes affecting the industry .
" one is lower power prices and the margins that are associated with them . and two is lower stock prices and the ability to finance more asset driven growth , " patterson said .
as earnings fall and forward earnings guidance is revised downward , some power companies are seeking strategies to address the bleaker environment . and plans to spin off units have been postponed or called off .
shares of enron slid $ 1 . 05 , or 6 . 4 percent , to $ 15 . 30 in afternoon trade on the new york stock exchange on friday .
the world has changed
aes corp . , a global power producer whose earnings fell for a second consecutive quarter on a poor showing from operations in brazil and britain , said thursday it would revamp its organization and did not rule out selling off assets .
" it ' s a different place , " aes ' chief executive officer dennis bakke said of the business climate facing utilities today compared with last year ' s powerful growth . on friday , constellation energy group , parent company of baltimore gas & electric , scrapped plans to split its power generation and trading operations into two company because of economic changes . constellation also hired a new chief executive and severed ties with goldman sachs , which planned to make an equity investment in the company .