Subject: enron mentions
with enron stock trading at book value , some see company as a takeover target
the wall street journal , 10 / 31 / 01
stock markets london stock exchange - shell hurt by enron bid talk .
financial times , 10 / 31 / 01
observer - no show - avenue of the americas .
financial times , 10 / 31 / 01
companies & finance the americas - rumours of broader inquiry hit enron .
financial times , 10 / 31 / 01
world stock markets - wall st suffers as confidence index hits low .
financial times , 10 / 31 / 01
waiting for balance sheets amid enron ' s debacle : david wilson
bloomberg , 10 / 31 / 01
the art of trading
thestreet . com , 10 / 31 / 01
s & p analyst todd shipman on enron corp . : credit rating comment
bloomberg , 10 / 31 / 01
enron fails to get funds from institutional investor , wsj says
bloomberg , 10 / 31 / 01
takeover talk can ' t halt enron stock plunge .
the oil daily , 10 / 31 / 01
big volume , big drop for enron shares
houston chronicle , 10 / 31 / 01
the one - eyed man
new york times , 10 / 31 / 01
after the bubble - tuesday
the daily deal , 10 / 31 / 01
pge ' s financial loss first in years
associated press newswires , 10 / 31 / 01
` enron buy - out offer highly over - priced '
the times of india , 10 / 31 / 01
indian lenders to dabhol to meet power secretary today
business standard , 10 / 31 / 01
enron queried by sec on debt , partnership in 1998 ( updatel )
bloomberg , 10 / 31 / 01
enron probe is moved to sec ' s head office from texas ( correct )
bloomberg , 10 / 31 / 01
usa : nymex plans to start otc natgas clearing services .
reuters english news service , 10 / 30 / 01
usa : update 3 - enron shares plunge 19 percent , hit 1992 levels .
reuters english news service , 10 / 30 / 01
enron ' s stock continues tumbling after investigation reportedly moves to washington
associated press newswires , 10 / 30 / 01
heard on the street
with enron stock trading at book value , some see company as a takeover target
by john r . emshwiller and rebecca smith
staff reporters of the wall street journal
10 / 31 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones nor will it comment on whether it had approached potential investors about a possible capital infusion . however , the continued plunge in enron shares and turmoil surrounding the company are a significant " overreaction in the marketplace . our core businesses are strong , " he says . the company has said that it is taking steps to restore investor confidence .
for example , enron is trying to negotiate a new credit line with its major banks . late yesterday , enron ' s bankers were putting the final touches on a new credit line of more than $ 1 billion , according to people familiar with the discussions .
analysts and other observers say that one uncertainty surrounding enron is the condition of its vast energy - trading operation . as the nation ' s biggest energy trader , enron is a principal in one - quarter of all electricity and natural - gas trades . enron ' s enrononline internet - based trading platform has transacted more than $ 884 billion of trades since it was created in november 1999 and does about $ 4 billion a day in transactions .
one worry is that enron ' s trading partners , edgy about the turmoil swirling around the company , will start demanding much tougher credit terms from the houston company or simply cut back doing business . such a trend , if it picked up enough momentum , could have troubling consequences for enron . " we are all in suspense . . . . it all depends on how the market reacts , " says susan abbott , a managing director at moody ' s investors service . on monday , moody ' s downgraded enron ' s long - term debt .
there were some warning signs of unease among trading partners even before the company ' s third - quarter earnings release set the stage for the huge drop in the stock price . about six to seven weeks ago , entergy corp . became worried about its level of exposure in enron - related deals , says wayne leonard , chairman and chief executive officer of the big new orleans energy company . since then , entergy has cut its enron exposure to about $ 10 million to $ 20 million from $ 90 million to $ 100 million , he says . mr . leonard didn ' t specify what prompted the worries , which appear to have arisen after the surprise august announcement by jeffrey skilling that he was resigning as enron president and chief executive . mr . skilling cited personal reasons as well as his concerns over the falling stock price .
while the enron spokesman says the company doesn ' t comment on specific trading arrangements , he adds that entergy is one of his company ' s smaller trading partners . he says major trading partners are doing business with enron on " essentially the same terms and conditions " and that overall " our trading operations are as strong as ever . "
the company spokesman adds that a few smaller trading partners in europe are seeking revised credit terms from enron . " we are working to put together credit terms , which they are more comfortable with , " says the spokesman , who declines to be more specific .
in an effort to bolster its liquidity and position in the marketplace , enron last week drew down some $ 3 billion , accounting for the bulk of its existing credit lines . while it used most of that money to buy its outstanding commercial paper , a short - term corporate iou , the company retained about $ 1 billion of the borrowings as cash .
a friendly takeover of all or part of enron would be likelier than a hostile one . among the most obvious candidates would be other companies with big trading operations and experience in risk management . two possible deterrents to a would - be buyer : a flurry of recent shareholder lawsuits filed against enron and the continuing sec probe .
- - -
robert frank , ken brown , jathon sapsford and matt murray contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
stock markets london stock exchange - shell hurt by enron bid talk .
by peter john , patrick lord and ruth sullivan .
10 / 31 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
shell transport underperformed bp on speculation that it might be poised to launch a multi - billion dollar bid for enron of the us .
the company is believed to have been in talks with the indebted energy group earlier in the year .
enron has a market capitalisation of around $ 11 bn . analysts say shell would probably not have to offer a huge premium and could afford to fund a deal with cash . shell said it would not comment on the speculation .
enron would be a good fit but earlier this week moody ' s became the first of the main rating agencies to downgrade the houston - based company ' s debt by lowering it to just two notches above " junk " status citing " the deterioration in enron ' s financial flexibility " .
steve turner of commerzbank said : " i think the market would be very nervous if shell were to launch a bid for enron because of the uncertainty about enron ' s balance sheet . "
there was another judder to the share price from speculation that moeara enim , an investment vehicle whose sole asset is a 55 m share stake in royal dutch , faces a bid and break up by fortis , the dutch - belgian financial group . shell fell 14 1 / 2 to 515 p and bp dropped 6 1 / 2 to 553 1 / 2 p .
vodafone accounted for 20 per cent of the footsie fall after the mobile phone group , which has rallied sharply since september 11 , came off the boil .
the shares dropped 5 1 / 2 to 157 3 / 4 p on turnover of 435 m shares , almost 22 per cent of the total traded across the uk market .
the shares had rallied 26 per cent over the past six weeks and several brokers had started to call the top . the latest to downgrade was commerzbank which moved its stance to " reduce " from " hold " with a fair value estimate of 149 p a share .
the broker ' s move reflected worries that vodafone ' s recent revenue per user figures were not sufficient to bolster confidence in forecasts of longer - term sustained customer revenue growth .
colt profits taken
elsewhere in the sector , colt telecom fell 15 1 / 4 to 121 3 / 4 p as investors took profits and merrill lynch downgraded estimates .
merrill said that after colt ' s recent disappointing third quarter results , it had cut its revenue forecasts for 2001 and 2002 by 1 per cent and 5 per cent respectively .
colt had jumped more than 12 per cent on monday on talk that cable & wireless might launch a bid .
3 i fell 60 to 730 p after an early release of the group ' s interim results showed that net asset value per share had slid 22 . 6 per cent to 631 p . the company said it had decided on an early release of its results as it was also announcing organisational changes . it said it was cutting 17 per cent of its workforce in an effort to maintain a strong balance sheet amid poor market conditions .
close brothers fell 37 to 715 p as the merchant bank said it remained cautious about the outlook .
london bridge software fell 12 to 129 1 / 2 p as nomura downgraded its rating and forecasts to reflect the group ' s high level of us exposure .
spirent fell another 11 to 116 1 / 2 p as deutsche bank became the latest broker to issue cautious advice . it started coverage of the communications testing group with a " market perform " stance , saying near - term sector risks outweighed the long - term prospects .
medisys gained 7 to 62 1 / 2 p after dresdner kleinwort wasserstein initiated coverage on the stock with a " buy " recommendation .
shares in gkn fell 9 to 271 p after the automotive and aerospace engineer announced that it is to shed 1 , 250 jobs - including some in the uk . the cuts are likely to be concentrated in the civil aerospace area which has suffered heavily . credit suisse first boston cut its profit forecasts for the next two years .
bullough , the engineering holding company , said any improvement in trading in the second half is unlikely . its shares fell 3 1 / 2 to 18 p .
british american tobacco brought some cheer to the ftse 100 as its shares rose 11 1 / 2 or almost 2 per cent to 597 1 / 2 p after the company said its four global brands showed an overall growth rate of 9 per cent and reported robust nine month results .
bat on the rise
michael smith , an analyst at morgan stanley dean witter said third quarter results were " slightly better than expected " and showed that bat can meet its numbers for the full year .
" it can achieve 8 per cent earnings growth for the full year " he said . but although there was plenty of reassurance for this year , next year will be more of a challenge . " weak macro - economic conditions and smokers downtrading to cheaper brands are likely to prove a problem next year , " he said . another concern will be countries such as germany and malaysia where tax on cigarettes is increasing .
some of the fizz went out of alcoholic drinks groups as two leading companies in the sector made cautious comments about future growth prospects after the september 11 terrorist attacks on the us . despite reporting robust full - year results , allied domecq shares fell 11 to 351 1 / 2 p as the group warned that future earnings growth will be harder to achieve than last year .
merrill lynch said that trading profit was 2 per cent ahead of estimates at # 543 m , against the broker ' s forecast of # 530 m but merrill analyst mark puleikis said there will be two hits to profits going forward .
" allied will spend # 50 m on it over the next few years and a further de - stocking programme of # 15 m per annum over the next two years , " he said . the broker gave a discounted cash flow forecast of 460 p and retained its " neutral " recommendation . the broker said it continued to prefer diageo .
abn amro also retained its " hold " stance .
leisure and hotel group whitbread gained 7 1 / 2 to 520 p after reporting a 32 per cent drop in first half profits , in line with analysts expectations . abn amro said it anticipates about a 5 per cent upgrade to its profit before tax estimate for 2002 and retained its " add " stance , while ing barings charterhouse securities switched its recommendation from " hold " to " buy " . regular uk equities updates at www . ft . com / equities .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
observer - no show - avenue of the americas .
10 / 31 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
ken lay , enron ' s chairman , knows all about leadership in turbulent times .
the preacher ' s son who propelled the us energy group and trader from a pipeline company to the number one energy trading company in the us had been expected to join a host of other leading chief executives and rudolph giuliani , new york ' s mayor , in new york next week .
" leadership in turbulent times " , organised by fortune magazine , is a benefit conference to tackle the " extraordinary new challenges " faced by us companies in the aftermath of september 11 .
conference organisers had been keen to ask lay where he believed his industry , on which all businesses depend so heavily , was headed .
a timely question . investors have dumped enron in recent weeks , triggered by credit rating downgrades , lingering questions over the company ' s off - balance - sheet deals and potential conflicts of interest for its former chief financial officer .
times are perhaps too turbulent for lay . he cancelled his appearance .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies & finance the americas - rumours of broader inquiry hit enron .
by sheila mcnulty .
10 / 31 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
enron ' s shares continued to fall yesterday on speculation that the securities and exchange commission ' s ( sec ) unofficial inquiry into the financial dealings of the us energy group had been broadened , sheila mcnulty reports from houston .
so far the sec has declined to comment , following its request for information after enron disclosed a $ 1 . 2 bn reduction in shareholder equity tied to controversial financing vehicles set up by the recently replaced chief financial officer , andrew fastow .
yesterday , the company would not say whether the probe had been made official or grown beyond that $ 1 . 2 bn charge . the houston - based company has lost more than $ 15 bn in market capitalisation since october 16 . by the close yesterday , the stock was down 19 . 19 per cent , trading at $ 11 . 16 .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
world stock markets - wall st suffers as confidence index hits low .
by mary chung .
10 / 31 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
us equities continued to sink in late morning trade as investors took more profits following grim economic data showing a plunge in consumer confidence .
by midsession , the dow jones industrial average was down 145 . 24 to 9 , 124 . 26 while the s & p 500 index fell 17 . 89 to 1 , 060 . 41 . the nasdaq composite gave up 29 . 69 at 1 , 669 . 83 .
wall street ' s optimism for a recovery faded , as the consumer confidence index fell for october to its lowest level in seven years . " it ' s time to take a breather . the consumer confidence number wasn ' t good and you ' re going to get a whole week of data that probably aren ' t going to be very good , " said john o ' donoghue , director of equity trading at credit suisse first boston .
dow components were broadly lower , with mcdonald ' s taking the lead , down 6 per cent at $ 25 . 60 after the fast - food chain trimmed earnings targets for 2002 . philip morris , the tobacco maker , fell 4 per cent to $ 47 . 77 after goldman sachs lowered its rating from " recommended " to " market outperformer " .
eastman kodak retreated 4 . 3 per cent at $ 28 . 58 on competition fears after lehman brothers said wal - mart is set to introduce its own private label film . wal - mart shed 1 . 7 per cent at $ 51 .
procter & gamble , however , was a bright spot on the dow after the company reported a fiscal first - quarter profit that topped wall street estimates . shares gained 0 . 65 per cent at $ 71 . 76 .
coca - cola was down 2 per cent at $ 47 . 70 after the beverage maker agreed to buy odwalla , a maker of juices and shakes . odwalla rose 28 per cent at $ 15 . 12 .
ford fell 0 . 3 per cent at $ 16 . 17 after the company announced the resignation of jac nasser as chief executive after an acrimonious split with the ford family .
enron , the embattled energy trading company , continued to decline , off another 19 per cent at $ 11 . 20 as credit concerns and credibility questions weighed on the company .
technology stocks were mostly lower , with microsoft off 1 per cent at $ 59 . 05 and intel 1 . 3 per cent at $ 23 . 86 . juniper networks shed 1 per cent at $ 23 . 76 after merrill lynch cut its rating . its rival cisco systems gained 1 . 3 per cent at $ 16 . 64 .
toronto fell in early trading with the weak opening for the nasdaq weighing heavily on sentiment . the s & p 300 composite index was off 0 . 8 per cent at 6 , 838 . 60 at midsession .
technology leaders led the way down . celestica lost c $ 1 . 85 at c $ 52 . 65 and c - mac industries c $ 1 . 60 at c $ 33 . 15 . nortel networks shed 21 cents to c $ 9 . 02 .
golds , boosted by a firm bullion price , were stronger . barrick added 55 cents at c $ 25 . 40 and placer dome c $ 1 . 15 at c $ 18 . 20 .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
waiting for balance sheets amid enron ' s debacle : david wilson
2001 - 10 - 31 06 : 19 ( new york )
waiting for balance sheets amid enron ' s debacle : david wilson
( commentary . david wilson is a columnist for bloomberg news .
the opinions expressed are his own . )
princeton , new jersey , oct . 31 ( bloomberg ) - - international
business machines corp . ' s press release about its third - quarter
results included this statement , attributed to louis gerstner ,
chairman and chief executive officer :
` ` ibm ' s balance sheet remains among the strongest in the
technology industry , or any industry . ' '
the largest maker of computers and provider of computer
services wasn ' t the only company to cite its balance sheet , a
statistical summary of what a company owned , what it owed , and
what was left over for shareholders on a specific date .
general electric co . , the largest company by stock market
value , and citigroup inc . , the no . 1 financial - services company ,
made similar references in their third - quarter releases .
none of the companies really showed people what they were
telling them . ibm , general electric and citigroup are among 19
members of the dow jones industrial average whose most recent
quarterly releases didn ' t include balance sheets .
the evidence will come only when the companies submit their
quarterly reports to the u . s . securities and exchange commission .
balance sheets are required in the so - called 10 - q filings , along
with the 10 - k filings that cover the full year .
not much publicity
by then , statistics about the companies ' assets , liabilities
and shareholders ' equity , the accounting terms for what ' s owned ,
what ' s owed and what ' s left over , will be rather outdated .
u . s . companies have 45 days from the end of a fiscal quarter
to submit 10 - q reports , and 90 days from the end of a fiscal year
for 10 - k reports .
these filings usually don ' t arrive until weeks after the
publication of earnings releases . so it ' s easy to overlook the
additional information they provide , especially when it doesn ' t
receive the kind of publicity that the earnings release does .
yet the recent example of enron corp . - - another company that
omits balance sheets from press releases - - provides evidence that
investors who forgo the extra effort needed to find them do so at
their own peril .
enron , the largest energy trader , reported $ 1 . 01 billion in
` ` non - recurring ' ' costs in the third quarter from an expansion
into water , telecommunications and retail - energy sales . the
expense contributed to a $ 618 million loss for the quarter .
these numbers were part of the houston - based company ' s income
statement , a summary of sales , costs and expenses , and profits or
losses during a specified time period . income statements are the
cornerstone of any company ' s earnings release .
billion - dollar numbers
the release didn ' t even mention a larger figure that affected
the balance sheet : a $ 1 . 2 billion drop in shareholders ' equity
during the quarter . chairman and ceo kenneth lay disclosed the
repurchase in a subsequent conference call .
this decline resulted from the company ' s repurchase of 55
million shares from two partnerships , ljm cayman lp and ljm 2 co -
investment lp , that helped finance projects . andrew fastow , who
ran both partnerships , was ousted from his job as chief financial
officer last week .
such a one - two punch dealt a blow to investors ' fortunes .
since oct . 17 , the day after the earnings release , enron ' s shares
have fallen each day and have lost two - thirds of their value . the
low of $ 10 . 90 yesterday was the lowest price since july 1992 .
enron ' s third - quarter statement referred only to a loss on
` ` finance arrangements with a previously disclosed entity ' ' which
contributed to $ 544 million of investment losses . the size of that
item was later put at $ 35 million .
the latter number amounts to just 3 . 5 percent of the overall
figure for ` ` non - recurring ' ' costs , and less than 1 percent of the
company ' s $ 47 . 6 billion in revenue for the quarter .
growing debt burden
the $ 1 . 2 billion figure is considerably larger not only in
dollars , but also in percentage terms . enron had $ 11 . 74 billion of
shareholders ' equity as of june 30 , according to the balance sheet
in its second - quarter 10 - q filing . the reduction equaled more than
10 percent of that total .
among other things , the balance sheet also shows that the
company relied more heavily on debt financing during this year ' s
first half . short - term debt , due in one year or less , doubled to
$ 3 . 46 billion . long - term debt , maturing in more than one year ,
rose 9 . 4 percent to $ 9 . 36 billion .
there ' s even more to the story of enron ' s indebtedness . the
company guaranteed $ 3 . 3 billion in borrowing by osprey trust and
marlin water trust , which bought some of its power plants . unless
they pay off the debt by reselling the plants , the company may
have to come up with the difference .
nevertheless , any summary of a company ' s financial position
provides a more complete picture than the income statement alone .
this also holds true for companies whose finances are in better
shape - - ibm , general electric and citigroup , to name three .
knowing by showing
other members of the dow industrials that wait until their
filings to provide balance sheets are american express co . , at & t
corp . , boeing co . , caterpillar inc . , coca - cola co . , walt disney
co . , dupont co . , eastman kodak co . , exxon mobil corp . , general
motors corp . , honeywell international inc . , johnson & johnson ,
mcdonald ' s corp . , merck & co . , procter & gamble co . and sbc
communications inc .
companies that include them in releases are alcoa inc . ,
hewlett - packard co . , home depot inc . , intel corp . , international
paper co . , microsoft corp . , minnesota mining & manufacturing co . ,
j . p . morgan chase & co . , philip morris cos . , united technologies
corp . and wal - mart stores inc .
citigroup ' s third - quarter earnings release has this quote
from sandy weill , chairman and ceo : ` ` we have the balance sheet
strength to make timely acquisitions to expand our franchises . ' '
the new york - based company had more than $ 85 billion of ` ` total
equity , ' ' weill said in the statement .
general electric ' s release quoted chairman and ceo jeffrey
immelt as saying ` ` our strong balance sheet , which gives us the
flexibility to pursue strategic opportunities , ' ' is one of the
fairfield , connecticut - based company ' s ` ` fundamental strengths . ' '
investors can only take these ceos at their word for now .
their companies , and many others , are only telling rather than
showing - - at least in their earnings releases .
- - david wilson in the princeton newsroom ( 609 ) 750 - 4546
the art of trading
by james j . cramer
thestreet . com
10 / 31 / 2001 08 : 24 am est
url :
throughout this tremendous downturn in the fortunes of big - cap stocks turned small - cap and large growth stocks turned into small value plays , we have seen mutual fund families fall by the wayside as they weren ' t able to dodge the quickly changing market .
we tend to want to believe that it is just stock selection that sunk a first hands or a janus or an invesco or a van wagoner or those ne ' er - do - well putnam funds .
but it ' s not . it ' s also trading . many of the funds that gained great renown in the 1990 s that have now fallen on such hard times since the bear market began in 2000 are funds that don ' t know how to sell , that don ' t know how to get out of stocks .
you won ' t read this kind of criticism in the mutual fund ratings , which tend to be antiseptic and mathematically derived . and you won ' t read it in the magazines like money or the smartmoney , outlets that , while strong in some departments , really don ' t understand trading at all .
but it is what determines good from bad in tough markets , and right now you are seeing some really horrible trading from some of these giant mutual funds . they are simply unable to extricate themselves from loser positions without hurting themselves on the go out .
trading ' s an art . for those of you who are football fans , trading is like what happens in the interior line , the trenches . you know that ' s where the game can be decided . basketball fans ? trading is the movement of other players who don ' t have the ball . it is the invisible game that determines what is going to happen .
i take it seriously because i was a trader and most of my friends are traders . we will often joke about how some of these mutual funds just don ' t have a clue when they are trying to get out of stocks . they blow them to kingdom come with their sloppiness and their inability to execute .
others , however , can trade magnificently and know how to play the game . have you noticed , for example , i never make fun of fidelity in my litany of fund criticism ? one of the reasons is that fidelity is a fabulous trader . fido has a great trading desk that is incredibly adept at getting in and out of stocks . they are masters . it saves their portfolio managers ' fortunes . i know this because i have handled their orders and because i have many friends who currently handle their orders and we all talk , as we always have , about this stuff every day .
when we look at sagas like enron ( ene : nyse - news - commentary ) , where mutual funds were caught trying to exit , caught like trapped deer on an interstate , we have to remember that not all mutual fund trading desks are created equally . some simply don ' t have a clue .
getting out of stock , especially when you have built up a huge concentration in one position , is an art , an art that many funds of the world never had . they even denigrated the profession by never emphasizing it as a virtue . in these days when the market blitzes positions it doesn ' t like , if you don ' t have a good trading line , you could be history .
many of these mutual fund " families " will turn out to be history when this era ends . don ' t let them make your nest egg history , too . especially when there are other fund groups that do know the value of good trading and can handle these markets with much more poise and far fewer losses .
random musings : pit yourself against others and make money in our trading contest . and create a record to show others that you know how to trade so you can catch on with or create your own hedge fund ! that ' s what this contest is all about . click here for more info .
s & p analyst todd shipman on enron corp . : credit rating comment
2001 - 10 - 31 08 : 18 ( new york )
new york , oct . 31 ( bloomberg ) - - todd shipman , a director at
standard & poor ' s , a credit rating company , comments on enron
corp , the houston - based largest energy trader .
s & p affirmed the company ' s long - term credit rating at
` ` bbb + ' ' on oct . 25 . it lowered its outlook to negative from
stable following the announcement that the u . s . securities and
exchange commission is investigating the company ' s financial
dealings with affiliates that were run by ousted chief financial
officer andrew fastow .
enron ' s shares have fallen 87 percent this year . they
finished yesterday down $ 2 . 65 , or 19 percent , to $ 11 . 16 .
` ` what little bit of credibility management had with
investors has continued to erode , ' ' he said .
` ` people , i don ' t believe , are acting based on facts that are
coming out . ' ' they are trading on the ` ` uncertainty as to what the
real story is , what the exposures are , and what enron will do to
rectify the situation .
` ` until enron gets out there to explain what the facts are
and what they are going to do about it , you could see a
continuation of these problems .
` ` the market is dealing with an information vacuum of the
company ' s own making . in the face of that uncertainty , it looks to
me like there are more and more people bailing out . ' '
on s & p ' s negative outlook :
traders see differences between the terms ` ` negative
creditwatch ' ' and ` ` negative outlook , ' ' he said .
` ` i consider both to be serious indications that there is a
chance the rating is going to be downgraded , and i wouldn ' t
hesitate , if it were justified , to downgrade enron off a negative
outlook . it is just as likely from a negative outlook as from a
negative creditwatch . ' '
` ` creditwatch is tied much more to an event . ' '
` ` negative outlook should be sending just as serious a signal
as a negative creditwatch would . ' '
on counterparty exposure :
` ` i fully expected ' ' counterparties to cut back their
exposure . ` ` it doesn ' t mean they are doing less business or are
shying away from enron on concerns they won ' t get paid . prudent
credit practices would dictate to any of these marketers that they
have to pay attention to what their exposure is to enron at any
given time . ' '
there won ' t be ` ` any real short - term or long - term damage to
the franchise value of enron ' s marketing and trading business as
long as everything gets fixed , and they get past this current
situation and have the opportunity to deal with their credit
quality in the long run , then there isn ' t any long - term
implication or any real significant impact on their ability to
remain the market leader there . ' '
` ` the credit extended to enron by its counterparties is
something that enron looks at day to day . ' '
` ` we have no indication that ' ' firms have stopped dealing
with enron , but if that happened , ` ` the situation could get
serious . ' '
on the possibility of being downgraded to junk :
it is still a ` ` fairly remote possibility ' ' at this time that
enron could lose its investment grade credit rating , he said .
` ` they have plenty of liquidity in the short - term that will get
them through the current situation . ' '
` ` there is a credible case to be made that ' ' there are
actions management has ` ` to take to restore the balance sheet to
investment - grade quality . management is both willing and able to
take the steps necessary to do that . there ' s a really good chance
that if they can get through this period of uncertainty , they ' ll
be able to accomplish that . ' '
on off - balance sheet exposure :
` ` i don ' t think anybody has a good handle on 