Subject: enron mentions
ken , lay your cards on the table
fortune magazine , 11 / 12 / 01
editor ' s desk
fortune magazine , 11 / 12 / 01
s . e . c . opens investigation into enron
the new york times , 11 / 01 / 01
enron partnerships led by fastow face a formal sec investigation
the wall street journal , 11 / 01 / 01
broadband trading ' s prospects narrow fast
the wall street journal , 11 / 01 / 01
before the bell : microsoft up off possible antitrust deal
dow jones commodities service , 11 / 01 / 01
companies nov 1 , 2001
commodities nov 1 , 2001
world stock markets : wall st falters after modest morning revival
financial times ; nov 1 , 2001
what went wrong with enron ?
houston chronicle , nov 1 , 2001
formal upgrade of enron investigation gives subpoena power to sec
houston chronicle , nov 1 , 2001
enron discloses sec probe
the washington post , 11 / 01 / 01
enron corp . cut to near - term ` neutral ' at merrill
bloomberg , 11 / 01 / 01
sec opens formal investigation into enron , company says
associated press newswires , 10 / 31 / 01
sec probe of dealings is official , enron says
chicago tribune , 11 / 01 / 01
exchanges add otc products as option to enron .
the oil daily , 11 / 01 / 01
india : bank meeting on enron indian unit postponed - source .
reuters english news service , 11 / 01 / 01
bg extends talks with ongc , reliance over gas fields ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 01 / 01
indian financial institutions fail to resolve dabhol power issue
asia pulse , 11 / 01 / 01
indian lenders , enron officials discuss dabhol crisis
business standard , 11 / 01 / 01
us utilities are slow to make life harder for enron
dow jones news service , 10 / 31 / 01
enron says sec inquiry now a formal investigation ( update 4 )
bloomberg , 10 / 31 / 01
smartmoney . com : the data mine : come sales away
dow jones news service , 10 / 31 / 01
usa : enron trusts may prove troublesome if ratings cut .
reuters english news service , 10 / 31 / 01
usa : update 3 - enron says sec inquiry now full - scale probe .
reuters english news service , 10 / 31 / 01
usa : funds still shying away from former darling enron .
reuters english news service , 10 / 31 / 01
first / enron
ken , lay your cards on the table
bethany mclean
11 / 12 / 2001
fortune magazine
time inc .
37
( copyright 2001 )
" i want to make sure we restore that credibility . " so said enron ceo ken lay in august , after his company ' s stock had fallen from over $ 80 to $ 36 since january , after the shocking resignation of his handpicked successor , jeff skilling , and after growing complaints about the company ' s incomprehensible financial statements .
today there ' s mounting evidence that lay - - a senior statesman who helped create enron in the mid - ' 80 s - - may not be part of the solution . in the past two months enron ' s stock has sunk another 60 % , to $ 16 , amid concern that the company ' s murky disclosure may be a sign of deeper business problems . a conference call that lay held on oct . 23 , ostensibly to reassure skittish investors , was widely regarded as a disaster . enron " wiggled , squirmed , and gave a bunch of nonanswers , " as one listener puts it . even formerly docile sell - side analysts are turning hostile . after the call , prudential ' s carol coale downgraded enron to a sell , " not because of things that we know , but because of things that we potentially don ' t know . "
enron ' s stock began its plunge in mid - october after the company announced its third - quarter results . as always , enron made its earnings number - - that is , before a gigantic , $ 1 . 01 billion charge due to a slew of investments gone sour . worse , enron was less than up - front about an additional $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholders ' equity , caused by the early termination of controversial outside investment partnerships run by former enron cfo andy fastow . lay reassured investors that enron ' s credit rating was intact but made no mention of moody ' s , which after the call put enron ' s debt on review for a possible downgrade . as enron acknowledges , it is critical that the company ' s debt be rated investment - grade , given the requirements of its huge trading operations . enron ' s debt is currently rated several notches above investment - grade , and at the end of the second quarter the company had $ 12 billion in debt , or a not unhealthy debt - to - capitalization ratio of 46 % . but the most recent figures aren ' t yet available ( enron doesn ' t release a balance sheet with its earnings results ) , and there ' s concern about enron ' s ability to meet its near - term liquidity needs .
the stock sank further when enron announced that the sec was inquiring into the fastow - run partnerships , which did a variety of bewildering deals with enron , raising questions about possible conflicts of interest . lay contends that the partnerships , named ljm and ljm 2 ( for fastow ' s children , says one analyst ) , were done merely to " mitigate volatility . " a so - called chinese wall - - meaning that enron and the partnerships were run as two separate businesses - - protected enron shareholders , he insisted . but here ' s an extraordinary line from one copy of ljm 2 ' s marketing material : " enron board of directors has waived ' code of conduct ' for a . fastow ' s activities relative to ljm 2 . " ( enron says it claims absolutely no responsibility for what may have been represented by an independent company . ) as for lay ' s assertion of a chinese wall , well , how can there be a chinese wall within fastow ' s brain ? on oct . 24 , enron announced a fall guy - - fastow would take a " leave of absence . " at the very least the partnerships demonstrate horrific judgment by people other than just fastow . enron ' s board , for example , gave its okay . one document shows that ben glisan , enron ' s treasurer , was also on the partnership ' s investment team . ( enron says that document is a draft . )
perhaps the biggest concern is the true profitability of enron ' s core business , its energy trading operation . the heart of the enron story , the stuff that captivated wall street , was the company ' s transformation from a stodgy gas pipeline into a technology phenomenon that could make a market in anything , from electricity to broadband . it ' s impossible to know if enron has used the partnerships and off - balance - sheet vehicles to influence its reported earnings . enron also mingles profits from asset sales with its trading income - - and despite its pledges , in the most recent quarter the company provided less , not more , disclosure on that front . in addition there are questions about how aggressively enron books trading - related revenue . in fact , a knowledgeable source at a competitor says that enron recognizes its revenues at two to five times the rate of that company ' s . if energy trading is really such a fabulous business for enron , why does it need to play so many games ?
as for ken lay , who was once thought to be in jack welch ' s league , he has accomplished the truly remarkable feat of destroying much of what was left of enron ' s credibility in just a few short months - - along with some of his own . some observers suspect that the problem is not that lay is avoiding questions , but that he doesn ' t know the answers . in either case , lay is a long way from keeping his promises .
quote : despite promises from ceo ken lay , enron ' s financial disclosure is still far from sufficient .
color photo
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
editor ' s desk
rik kirkland / managing editor
11 / 12 / 2001
fortune magazine
time inc .
5
( copyright 2001 )
the chitlin strut is about to crank up again in salley , s . c . ( i ' m talking beauty pageant , fireworks , and 10 , 000 pounds of fried pig intestines - - you ' re there , right ? ) if not , there ' s plenty of other great stuff going on in november , as you ' ll learn by checking out our new fortune business calendar in the front of the current fortune advisor . written by reporter grainger david ( above ) , it ' s the wittiest , most delightful monthly guide anywhere . trust me on this . do not miss it ! otherwise , your colleagues will know when comdex starts , what connects cisco to guy fawkes day , and the date of the next beaver moon . and you ? you ' ll just be your usual chitlin - struttin ' , clueless , uninformed self .
combine the intelligence and ferocious accuracy of a research scientist with the voice of a lyric poet and what do you get ? david stipp . david keeps fortune on the cutting edge of medicine , genomics , and a host of technologies . any boomer fretting about his growing inability to recall old friends ' names ( much less the date of the battle of hastings ) will be heartened by david ' s story on the drive to develop " a pill to help you remember . " and in his second piece in this issue , " the coming hydrogen economy , " david shows how improved wind power , fuel cells , and other innovations are reducing america ' s reliance on hydrocarbons faster than most of us realized . it makes you wonder why our political leaders aren ' t already debating how they can help accelerate this welcome shift and eventually free us from our dependence on middle eastern oil . my advice : send david ' s report to your representatives and the president .
it may have been the call of the year . in our march 5 issue , senior writer bethany mclean asked , " is enron overpriced ? " yes , she argued . she was especially exercised about enron ' s opaque accounting and dubious rationalizations for its sky - high multiple . the stock was then at $ 75 , 13 of 18 analysts rated it a buy , and the company , which vigorously objected to bethany ' s piece , was still telling wall street it should be valued at $ 126 a share . eight months later , enron is trading around $ 15 , and that opaque accounting is a big part of its problem . see first for bethany ' s latest take on this ex - highflier .
who is this guy ? i ' m not telling , because it would steal from the punch line of senior writer jerry useem ' s marvelous essay on leadership , " what it takes . " jerry ' s story isn ' t on our cover merely because the challenge of running a company - - or any group of people - - in a crisis has , since sept . 11 , become topic a for business folks . it ' s there because it ' s really good . reading it could lower the odds you ' ll end up like our sad little bearded dude .
b / w photo : joanne chan b / w photo : richard e . schultz color photo : jane huntington b / w photo : brown brothers
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
s . e . c . opens investigation into enron
by alex berenson
11 / 01 / 2001
the new york times
page 4 , column 6
c . 2001 new york times company
the securities and exchange commission has opened a formal investigation into transactions among the enron corporation and partnerships headed by andrew s . fastow , the company ' s former chief financial officer , enron said yesterday .
the commission ' s move comes as enron struggles to reassure investors and its partners that its profits are real and that its cash position is strong . shares of enron , the world ' s largest trader of electricity and natural gas , have plunged 83 percent this year as investors question the company ' s complex and opaque accounting . shares of enron rose $ 2 . 74 yesterday , to $ 13 . 90 , ending a 10 - day string of losses .
in addition , enron ' s board said yesterday that it had appointed a special committee to examine the transactions . the panel will be headed by william powers jr . , the dean of the university of texas law school , who was elected to enron ' s board yesterday . the committee has hired william r . mclucas , a former head of the division of enforcement at the s . e . c . , as its counsel . he is a partner in the law firm of wilmer , cutler & pickering in washington .
enron disclosed 10 days ago that the commission had opened an informal inquiry into its transactions with mr . fastow . a formal investigation significantly increases the pressure on the company .
john heine , a spokesman for the commission , said he could not comment on the s . e . c . ' s investigation of enron . but , speaking generally , mr . heine said the opening of a formal inquiry enabled the commission to subpoena documents and was used when s . e . c . staff members thought that the companies or executives were not responding voluntarily to their questions .
if staff members ' ' run into situations where they feel they need information to look further and the sources for that information are not cooperative , the staff can go to the commission and recommend that the commission issue a formal order of investigation authorizing that the staff issue subpoenas , ' ' mr . heine said .
when it disclosed the commission ' s informal inquiry on oct . 22 , enron promised to cooperate fully with the s . e . c . ' ' we welcome this request , ' ' kenneth l . lay , enron ' s chairman , said .
a spokesman for enron did not return calls yesterday .
enron began this year on an apparently unstoppable growth streak . but the company has suffered one setback after another . the company ' s efforts to become a profit - making water supplier and to create a new market in broadband communications capacity have been expensive failures . in august , jeffrey k . skilling resigned as chief executive , forcing mr . lay , his predecessor , to resume day - to - day control .
enron ' s problems came to a head in mid - october , when it disclosed that its shareholders ' equity , a measure of the company ' s value , dropped $ 1 . 2 billion in the third quarter because of a deal with partnerships led by mr . fastow . because of complex accounting rules , the write - down was not apparent in enron ' s quarterly earnings report . news of the write - down disturbed investors because it suggested that enron might have found a way to hide losses , throwing the accuracy of its financial statements into question .
last week , the company ousted mr . fastow , but it is now struggling to explain the transactions to its shareholders and bond - rating agencies . amid rumors that the company might face a cash squeeze , enron used a $ 3 . 3 billion line of credit last week and is seeking additional financing . still , some energy companies are shying away from making trades with enron that will take more than a few weeks to close .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron partnerships led by fastow face a formal sec investigation
by john r . emshwiller and rebecca smith
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 01 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 4
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
the securities and exchange commission elevated to a formal investigation its inquiry into enron corp . ' s financial dealings with partnerships headed by its former chief financial officer , andrew fastow .
enron disclosed the sec action late yesterday . as a matter of policy , the sec doesn ' t comment on what it is or isn ' t investigating .
a formal investigation involves the sec ' s enforcement branch going to the five - member commission and obtaining formal subpoena power to pursue its inquiry . a person familiar with the sec probe said the agency felt it needed subpoena power to compel the release of information by parties that have done business with enron .
enron last week disclosed that the sec had contacted the company as part of what it described as an informal inquiry into the fastow - related partnerships . at the time , enron said it welcomed the inquiry and that it would cooperate fully with the sec - - a position the company has restated repeatedly since .
while a formal order of investigation doesn ' t indicate that the sec has decided that there is wrongdoing , it is a sign " of a decision to pursue the investigation , " said former sec enforcement attorney jacob frenkel . " it clearly is one level up " from an informal inquiry , he said .
as part of its efforts to deal with the overall situation , enron also announced the appointment of university of texas law - school dean william powers to its board . mr . powers will head a four - member board committee to look into the fastow - related transactions and other matters .
former sec enforcement chief william mclucas , who is now with the washington d . c . law firm of wilmer , cutler paulo ferraz pereira , executive vice president of the brazilian - owned investment bank group bozano and herbert s . winokur , jr . , chairman and chief executive of capricorn holdings , inc . enron chairman and chief executive kenneth lay has asked the committee to " take a fresh look at these transactions and take any appropriate action , " the company spokeswoman said .
enron has consistently said its dealings with the fastow - connected partnerships were legal and properly disclosed to investors . according to enron filings with the sec , the company did deals involving billions of dollars of assets and enron stock with entities related to the fastow partnerships . internal partnership documents indicate that mr . fastow and possibly others made millions of dollars from the partnerships . mr . fastow , who was replaced as chief financial officer last week , has consistently declined to be interviewed .
news of the sec investigation came at the end of what lately had been a rare up day for enron in the stock market . after plummeting for 10 straight trading sessions , enron shares rose by nearly 25 % . in 4 p . m . new york stock exchange composite trading , enron rose $ 2 . 74 to $ 13 . 90 a share and was once again the big board ' s most active issue , with about 43 . 8 million shares changing hands . a little more than two weeks ago , enron shares were above $ 33 each . about a year ago they were around $ 85 .
analysts and other observers said the rebound was partly due to bargain - hunting as well as continued speculation about a possible takeover bid for houston - based enron , given its current severely depressed stock price . starting about two weeks ago , enron suffered a sharp loss in investor confidence following big third - quarter write - downs , partly related to the fastow partnerships , and the disclosure of the sec inquiry .
enron officials argue that investors have been overreacting and say the company is fundamentally sound . they have promised to be more forthcoming about the company ' s extremely complex finances . investors need to know more about the company ' s potential liabilities , said a . g . edwards analyst michael heim . " until you know the worst - case scenario , it is hard to move forward , " he said .
to improve its liquidity , enron is nearing completion of a new bank credit line of roughly $ 1 billion to be secured by gas - pipeline assets , say people familiar with the matter . the new line would supplement existing credit facilities , which were largely used up last week when enron drew down about $ 3 billion to help it weather the current crisis .
- - -
jathon sapsford and michael schroeder contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
broadband trading ' s prospects narrow fast
by elliot spagat
staff reporter of the wall street journal
11 / 01 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
create a market , and they will come ?
last year , companies led by enron corp . envisioned a fast - growing , and very profitable , new market trading broadband capacity . as demand burgeoned for fiber - optic lines that carry internet and other data to offices and homes , they figured , people with too little or too much capacity would be eager to trade it - - much like soybeans , oil and electricity .
but instead of a bustling market , it has pretty much been a bust , so far anyway . plummeting broadband prices , a dearth of creditworthy customers and now enron ' s financial woes have stalled the nascent market , and the costs are adding up .
enron ' s broadband unit , for instance , had an $ 80 million operating loss in the third quarter on revenue of $ 4 million , down from revenue of $ 162 million a year earlier . the company also recorded a $ 180 million third - quarter charge to restructure its broadband unit , which included cutting 400 to 500 jobs and losses on the sale of inventory , and plans to close offices in london and singapore .
enron handled just 405 trades in the third quarter , down from 759 in the second quarter . currently , the broadband market - - in which contracts to buy and sell capacity on fiber - optic networks are traded by brokers by telephone , rather than on the floor of a physical exchange - - records fewer than two dozen trades a day . many of the transactions take place between energy companies rather than between users and suppliers .
that ' s less than what enron and others creating the new market , including dynegy corp . and el paso corp . , had expected . with characteristic bravado , they saw in telecommunications many of the same factors that drew them to gas and electricity : a newly deregulated market , plenty of inefficiency and what seemed to be insatiable demand for the fiber - optic lines to carry internet and other data .
for example , if a big corporation needed to quickly expand its internal " intranet " service to send traffic among its various offices around the u . s . , it could in effect buy the capacity on the new market .
after making hundreds of millions of dollars trading in natural gas and electricity , the companies were confident they could outmaneuver the giant telecom carriers , which never welcomed them , because the telecom companies wanted to control capacity rather than see it become a tradable commodity . " it ' s worked so well for us in gas , it ' s worked so well for us in power , " said stephen bergstrom , dynegy ' s president and chief operating officer . " there ' s a lot of differences , but there ' s also a lot of similarities . "
the energy companies , nearly all of which are based in houston , saw the telecom industry as slow and secretive . telecom carriers typically spend six to nine months arranging multiyear deals to exchange network capacity or to serve major business customers . their contracts , which aren ' t disclosed publicly , often involve custom work - - for which they could charge premium prices . and if their service turns out to be unreliable , the buyer has little recourse .
through trading of broadband capacity , enron in mid - 1999 saw the chance to offer telecom customers prices that were easy to understand and compare , because they would be based on standard contracts and instant delivery . penalties would be assessed when service faltered . contracts could change hands frequently and last for as little or as much time as the customers wanted . enron figured that time on fiber lines could be treated just like kilowatt hours of electricity .
enron " kind of made it happen . the other energy players look like followers , " noted martin gray , vice president for trading and risk management at london ' s cable & wireless plc , one of the few telecom companies to take a serious interest in bandwidth trading .
to back its efforts , enron erected an 18 , 000 - mile fiber network offering connections at blazing speed , and built 25 delivery points for companies to exchange bandwidth . it also relentlessly prodded carriers and large businesses to rethink the rules .
but most telecom carriers never warmed to bandwidth trading . " houston is a bad word in their mind , " said jack blunt , senior vice president of finance at ratexchange corp . , a san francisco - based bandwidth broker that also operates a small electronic broadband - trading exchange . " the energy merchants are perceived as cutting in on their business and trying to create a commodities market . "
efforts to create hubs , or points where service could be delivered , stumbled when other traders balked at how much information they would have to share if they used enron ' s sites . meanwhile , bandwidth prices were falling sharply , in part because telecom companies overbuilt their fiber - optic networks , and in part because demand , while growing , didn ' t grow as quickly as expected . as a result , customers were reluctant to buy contracts for fiber - optic capacity that would lock them into prices that might be much higher than rates they could get just a few months later .
at the same time , upstart phone companies and internet service providers - - among the biggest potential clients for excess capacity traded on a broadband market - - were running into serious problems , reducing the number of creditworthy customers .
el paso initially planned to invest $ 2 billion in its telecom business . a few months ago , it cut its projected investment to $ 1 . 5 billion . last week , the company said it would cut back " radically " and limit its focus to its existing network in texas and a delivery hub in chicago . " the clear line of sight to success has become very opaque , " said william wise , chief executive of the houston - based company .
dynegy , which operates a 16 , 000 - mile fiber - optic network connecting 44 u . s . cities , reported a relatively moderate $ 15 million third - quarter loss in its telecom business . " we are not big on [ being ] first mover , " said mr . bergstrom . " we were second mover in gas , second mover in power , and we were second mover in telecom . "
still , the houston crowd isn ' t giving up on the market . an enron spokeswoman said the company remains committed to telecom , but is reviewing costs . the company remains a chief cheerleader in trying to develop hubs and set standards .
dynegy is " comfortable " with its current position , a spokeswoman said . chuck watson , its chief executive , said demand has picked up sharply since sept . 12 as companies have conducted more business by phone . he expects demand to grow substantially next year . but executives at several companies acknowledge that it may take months , if not years , to create an active trading market .
if enron retreats further , the biggest winners would be the giant telecom carriers that considered enron a threat to their decades - old ways of doing business , analysts say . " all eyes are on enron , " said seth libby , an analyst at the yankee group research firm in boston . " when they came into this market , they were the catalyst , and they still are the catalyst to create bandwidth as a commodity . "
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
before the bell : microsoft up off possible antitrust deal
by shaheen pasha
of dow jones newswires
11 / 01 / 2001
dow jones commodities service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones 201 - 938 - 2312 ; shaheen . pasha @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies nov 1 , 2001
by julie earle , matthew jones and sheila mcnulty
with enron ' s share price hovering around its low for the year , the question of whether this is the right time to buy into the us ' s biggest energy trader is not only being asked by small - time investors but also by potential acquirers .
as of the market close on tuesday , enron ' s stock was down 67 per cent from october 16 , when the company disclosed a surprise dollars 1 . 2 bn charge against shareholders ' equity that has provoked a crisis of confidence in the company . the selling has hacked dollars 17 bn off enron ' s market value in two weeks .
" the situation is one where enron is likely to survive , but it is hard to analyse because we don ' t have all the information yet , " says john olson , vice - president of research at sanders morris harris , an investment banking firm . " with the stock being crunched so badly , only people with a high appetite for risk should buy . "
that goes for acquirers as well , analysts say .
the sec is conducting an unofficial enquiry into enron ' s financial dealings . andrew fastow , enron chief financial officer , has been replaced . shareholders have subsequently filed a series of lawsuits against enron . and not only has one of the main rating agencies downgraded enron ' s long - term debt , but the other two are reviewing it for potential downgrade .
other outstanding issues include how much enron will get from the dollars 4 . 5 bn in asset sales it has been planning , including its dabhol power project in india , where enron and its foreign partners want to retrieve their dollars lbn in costs spent building the now - defunct plant .
analysts warn there may be more losses to come at the company ' s poorly performing broadband division , where enron has warned it sees no immediate prospect of recovery , despite recent comments by dynegy , its rival , that the broadband market is improving .
and there are worries enron may have to take extra charges on its other off - balance - sheet vehicles .
kenneth lay , chief executive , has said the company is watching closely its operations in india , broadband and california , where enron is one of several energy traders facing questions over accusations of a manipulation of power prices - which it denies . but if enron had other impaired assets , it would have announced them , he added .
the potential risks make it more likely , analysts say , that acquirers would rather buy one or more of enron ' s business units than the whole business .
mr olson says enron ' s trading , outsourcing and pipeline businesses are all good growth businesses . the trading business , which has been growing 31 per cent a year , has been making a 23 per cent return on equity , he says .
energy outsourcing , growing at 50 per cent a year , has roe of 62 per cent , and roe at pipelines , where growth has been 7 - 8 per cent a year , has been 24 per cent .
at midday yesterday , enron ' s shares were trading at dollars 12 . 64 , up 13 . 26 per cent .
" the valuations are compelling , " says andre meade of commerzbank securities . enron is the number - one marketer of natural gas and power in north america . mr meade says enron is the best platform to get into these two big businesses .
banking sources in london say royal dutch / shell and bp have considered buying enron but have backed off because of concerns about a culture clash and the level of enron ' s debts .
banks have approached enel , the italian power utility , about acquiring enron , but it is understood to have rejected the idea .
eon , the german utility group , was also named as a potential european buyer , but analysts say the regulatory hurdles may be too high because it is still in the process of gaining approvals for its purchase of powergen , the uk electricity group with interests in the us .
" at this price a number of large utilities and oil groups will be looking at enron but the business is imploding so quickly that it ' s a real risk , " says one banker . additional reporting by fred kapner
executives campaign round the rating agencies
executives from enron , the embattled energy trading company , was visiting new york rating agencies yesterday as part of a campaign to defend the company ' s investment - grade rating , write sheila mcnulty in houston and robert clow in new york .
the team , led by greg whaley , enron ' s president and chief operating officer , was to meet separately with moody ' s investors service , standard & poor ' s and fitch .
moody ' s this week downgraded its long - term debt , citing deterioration in enron ' s financial flexibility over the past two weeks .
at the same time as the company was launching the charm offensive it was putting the finishing touches to a financing deal . enron said over the weekend that it was searching for sources of liquidity to bolster its financial position .
in spite of its troubles , enron ' s energy trading business has continued to thrive .
but that might no longer be the case if the company was downgraded below investment grade . then enron ' s trading counterparties might increase the amount of collateral they demand from enron , putting pressure on margins . " our concern is that a reduction in the debt rating could impair their ability to operate their trading and marketing operations , " said raymond niles of salomon smith barney .
even after the moody ' s downgrade , enron ' s long - term debt is still rated a few notches above junk by all rating agencies . fitch , howeve