Subject: enron mentions
houston , we have a problem
the economist , 11 / 03 / 01
enron gets $ 1 billion new credit line , but must pledge top gas - pipeline assets
the wall street journal , 11 / 02 / 01
enron ' s shares fall and debt rating is cut
the new york times , 11 / 02 / 01
the state calpers is urged to challenge enron finance : the public employee pension fund holds 3 million shares of the energy firm , whose stock has plunged . state senator calls for action .
los angeles times , 11 / 02 / 01
financing offers lure buyers
the washington post , 11 / 02 / 01
companies nov 2 , 2001
companies nov 2 , 2001
world stock markets : wall st buoyed by microsoft peace talks
financial times ; nov 2 , 2001
enron gets $ 1 billion
financial times ; nov 2 , 2001
usa : wrapup 2 - enron lines up cash to soothe worried wall street .
reuters english news service , 11 / 02 / 01
enron corp . : credit rating cut again ; $ 1 billion secured
chicago tribune , 11 / 02 / 01
india ongc plans enron oil , gas field bid if bg deal fails
dow jones energy service , 11 / 02 / 01
enron may sell india dabhol power shr at discount - lender
dow jones international news , 11 / 02 / 01
` buying out enron ' s stake in dabhol unit won ' t help '
the times of india , 11 / 02 / 01
dabhol lenders ' meet in london cancelled
business standard , 11 / 02 / 01
usa : critics question andersen ' s handling of enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 01 / 01
enron : online trading volume sees normal decline thursday
dow jones energy service , 11 / 01 / 01
power supplier enron ' s stock drops another 14 percent
associated press newswires , 11 / 01 / 01
usa : update 1 - s & p cuts enron ratings , may cut ratings again .
reuters english news service , 11 / 01 / 01
enron ' s credit rating cut after $ 1 bln loan secured ( update 9 )
bloomberg , 11 / 01 / 01
usa : enron u . s . energy trade so far skirts credit woes .
reuters english news service , 11 / 01 / 01
india press : dabhol creditors meeting in london called off
dow jones international news , 11 / 01 / 01
finance source : world reporter ( tm ) - ft mccarthy
the troubles of enron , a texan powerhouse in the energy markets , could result in a new financial crisis
just last year , visitors to enron ' s glittering headquarters in houston were greeted by a giant banner that proclaimed the firm , " the world ' s leading energy company " . that annoyed enron ' s smaller energy - trading rivals , many of which have offices only a stone ' s throw away in houston ' s energy alley , but not as much as what came next - a new banner , declaring enron " the world ' s leading company " . in recent weeks , as the company has been engulfed by a financial crisis , that banner has quietly been removed .
the heady mix of audacity , ambition and arrogance revealed by the banners is as good a guide as any to enron ' s remarkable rise and fall . forged in the 1980 s by the merger of two troubled gas - pipeline firms , enron drove the development of the sophisticated spot - and - derivatives markets in energy that it has come to dominate . indeed , such is the scale of its operations , and its dealings with many of the world ' s financial institutions , that some observers see parallels with long - term capital management ( ltcm ) , the hedge fund that failed in 1998 - and not just because seemingly brilliant financial alchemists have been humbled . were enron to go bust - unlikely , but in the current nervous climate , not impossible - might a crisis ensue ?
troubles in california ' s politically crazed power market , an ill - advised foray into telecoms bandwidth trading and concerns about management badly dented enron ' s share price earlier this year , prompting the departure of jeffrey skilling , the firm ' s newish chief executive , in august . kenneth lay , an avid free - marketeer , friend of george bush and visionary chairman of the firm , was obliged to resume hands - on control .
this has not slowed enron ' s decline . day by day , it seems to be sinking deeper into a financial quagmire that is largely of its own creation . not least thanks to its lack of transparency , the firm ' s credibility with the markets has eroded to the point that talk of a possible takeover or even bankruptcy is widespread .
enron ' s reputation for financial wizardry has been turned from an asset to a liability since its third - quarter results came out in mid - october , showing a $ 1 billion write - off on water distribution , broadband trading and other investments . worse , disclosed only in passing by mr lay in a conference call with analysts , the firm suffered a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in capital , stemming from a hedging deal with a related private - equity fund called ljm . the charge was due to enron ' s forced sale of 55 m of its own shares when the partnership was unwound this summer . almost nobody outside enron had been aware of the terms of the deal with ljm , a " structured finance vehicle " .
enron ' s failure to offer details about the risks from other related partnerships have led many to fear the worst about its huge balance sheet . its shares plunged by 19 % on october 30 th alone ( see chart on next page ) , before recovering a bit the next day .
andrew fastow , who was replaced as chief financial officer on october 24 th , was a general partner in ljm . jeffrey mcmahon , his successor , has much to do to restore confidence . questions abound . were the trusts run at arm ' s length ? what did mr fastow earn from the partnership ? ominously , the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) has now launched a formal inquiry .
moody ' s , a rating agency , last week cut its rating on the company ' s debt to barely above " junk " level . further downgrades might unleash claims from other off - balance - sheet partnerships . those known about , such as atlantic water and marlin water , do not seem big enough to bankrupt enron , but speculation is rife about what other obligations might lurk secretly in other structured vehicles .
a lower credit rating could destroy enron ' s core franchise as the leading energy middleman , by scaring away customers and freezing the wholesale energy markets . that might have nasty consequences in other markets . enron acknowledges that it is a large participant in the derivatives market , holding a portfolio with a notional value of $ 21 billion . rightly or wrongly , many traders believe that figure vastly understates enron ' s presence . if the firms on the other side of enron ' s trades start to fear that payment is not coming , they might curb their other trading , producing a knock - on effect . where this could end up is a subject of much conjecture .
utilities that trade energy could be hit . so could the commodity and derivative operations of large commercial and investment banks . the ties are notably tight between enron and j . p . morgan chase , according to ventana capital , a research firm . not only does j . p . morgan provide innumerable separate credit arrangements for enron ; it also has the largest derivative operation of any bank , as well as a large business trading commodities . there is " no doubt " that enron is on the other side of many j . p . morgan trades , says ventana .
were enron to fail , ventana thinks " it has the potential to cause a major financial crisis " , worse , in some ways , than what occurred after ltcm . that merely froze the debt markets temporarily , whereas enron deals in the building - blocks of the american economy . imagine gridlock in the markets for gas , timber , coal , metals , fertiliser , bandwidth or indeed any of the products enron deals in .
as yet , this all seems unlikely . many big traders were happy to deal with enron this week , although at shorter maturities and with less complex structures than in the past . trading on enrononline was reportedly strong . jim donnell of duke energy , a big energy trader , described " a huge dichotomy " between the collapse in confidence in enron in the equity and credit markets and the " business as usual " attitude taken by big commodity trading firms when considering enron as a counterparty .
yet as questions about enron ' s credit - standing spread this week , it began to have difficulty making markets in some instruments . few firms would accept enron ' s name as guarantor of a credit derivative . in its core energy markets some big trading counterparties refused the enron name . on the intercontinental exchange ( ice ) , two houses reportedly specified that they would not take enron ' s credit .
the biggest credit exposure appeared to be with banks , whose $ 3 billion of back - up lines to enron were drawn down last week . j . p . morgan arranged an additional $ 1 billion emergency credit - line this week . this back - up , it is widely assumed , is needed mainly to meet margin calls triggered by the ratings downgrade .
too big to fail ?
is enron too big and too important to be allowed to fail ? philip verleger , an energy economist , thinks that enron is so central to energy markets that it could not easily be replaced . enron ' s rivals mostly disagree , unsurprisingly .
but even enron ' s worst enemies do not ( yet ) expect the firm to die from its current crisis . most traders seem keen that it should live . " nobody likes to see a wholesale trader disappear , " says one . they admire enron ' s armies of traders and their ability to do deals . enrononline is one of the internet ' s few success stories , assuming its huge trading volumes do indeed generate big profits , as the firm claims .
enron ' s , and the financial system ' s , problems could worsen if doubts grow about its ability to meet its obligations . on the surface it is rich in assets , if not cash . but its lack of transparency leaves uncomfortable room for doubt . in june 2000 , the economist challenged mr lay to reply to accusations of arrogance , high - handedness and a propensity to push the limits of the law . his response was revealing . to show that such charges were baseless , he pointed to another firm unfairly maligned by critics : drexel burnham lambert , an investment bank that rose from obscurity to market prominence in the junk - bond boom of the 1980 s . drexel was accused of arrogance , he groused , but it was only being " very innovative and very aggressive " . drexel was not bailed out : michael milken , its star , ended up in jail , and drexel collapsed in a heap of bad debts and ignominy .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron gets $ 1 billion new credit line , but must pledge top gas - pipeline assets
by rebecca smith
staff reporter of the wall street journal
11 / 02 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 4
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . secured $ 1 billion in new credit lines , but had to pledge its best gas - pipeline assets as collateral . the deal did little to appease an important credit - rating agency .
standard & poor ' s ratings group lowered its rating on enron ' s long - term debt by one notch to triple - b from triple - b - plus and short - term debt to single - a - 3 from single - a - 2 , citing a belief that enron ' s planned sale of assets " will be insufficient to restore its long - term credit quality " to historic levels . moody ' s investors service inc . had issued debt downgrades earlier this week .
s & p also lowered ratings on the debt of enron ' s pipeline systems , transwestern pipeline co . and northern natural gas co . , that were used to collateralize a $ 1 billion bank borrowing from j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup inc . ' s salomon smith barney unit . enron said it would use the money from the 364 - day credit lines to refinance roughly $ 250 million in maturing obligations , leaving it $ 750 million to boost short - term liquidity .
in dropping the pipeline credit ratings by two notches , s & p noted that the assets have become " more strategic to the company , " in part because they can be relied upon to consistently make money , unlike many other enron hard - asset investments .
the pipelines produced $ 450 million in gas - transport revenue and an $ 85 million pretax profit in the third quarter on generally rising rates . that compared with revenue of $ 424 million for enron ' s foreign assets that scraped by with a $ 19 million earnings contribution .
todd shipman , credit analyst for s & p , said there have been concerns that enron might take on too much debt , trying to prove it has enough cash on hand to meet its energy - trading obligations . but he said s & p wasn ' t worried by the most recent borrowing , because " we don ' t think it will be a permanent part of the balance sheet . " however , he added that the amount of additional debt it can take on top of the $ 13 billion it now has outstanding is " little to none . " with the sharp fall in its stock price , enron ' s market capitalization is now around $ 10 billion .
an enron spokesman said " it should be a nonissue " because the company has no intention of borrowing more money anytime soon .
in announcing the borrowing plan , enron ' s new chief financial officer , jeff mcmahon , said it was a move to " enhance investor confidence . " but stock - market investors reacted otherwise and enron stock gave up most of wednesday ' s gain , closing at $ 11 . 99 , down $ 1 . 91 , or 14 % , in 4 p . m . new york stock exchange composite trading . with many enron bonds trading at two - thirds of their par value , bondholders didn ' t seem comforted either .
enron has been in a defensive posture since it announced a third - quarter loss of $ 618 million two weeks ago , followed by news that it also took a $ 1 . 2 billion equity write - down , based partly on transactions involving a handful of its own officers . the company replaced its chief financial officer , andrew fastow , after the securities and exchange commission began an inquiry into related - party transactions . enron on wednesday disclosed that the inquiry had been elevated to a formal probe .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
enron ' s shares fall and debt rating is cut
by richard a . oppel jr .
11 / 02 / 2001
the new york times
page 11 , column 1
c . 2001 new york times company
dallas , nov . 1 - - with investors absorbing news of a formal securities and exchange commission investigation and a downgrading by another large credit - rating agency , shares of the enron corporation fell 13 . 7 percent today , giving back most of the gains from wednesday ' s rally .
late on wednesday , enron , the energy - trading giant based in houston , said the s . e . c . had intensified its inquiry into the company ' s finances , making it a formal investigation , carrying subpoena power .
and today , standard & poor ' s lowered its rating on enron ' s senior debt by one notch , leaving it a few notches above junk bond status . the downgrading came after a similar cut by moody ' s investors service on monday . s . & p . left enron under review for a possible further downgrading .
if enron ' s credit rating were dropped below investment grade , it could force the company to issue millions of shares of stock to satisfy debts and prompt other big energy - trading concerns to curtail their business with enron .
s . & p . said that the company ' s ' ' financial flexibility has continued to diminish ' ' and that it had been unable ' ' to calm investors that are unsure about the strength of enron ' s core energy marketing business . ' ' but the rating agency also said it thought that ' ' enron ' s liquidity position is adequate to see the company through the current period of uncertainty ' ' and that , so far , ' ' most counterparties have maintained their trading activity with enron . ' '
this morning , enron said it had obtained $ 1 billion in additional financing . the line of credit may help the company convince investors and trading partners that it can weather this crisis . but some industry officials said investors might have reacted negatively because enron had to pledge assets from two subsidiaries , northern natural gas and transwestern pipeline , to secure the credit line .
an enron spokeswoman said that she did not know what interest rates the credit lines carried and that the company had no plans to seek even more financing deals .
enron ' s shares have fallen by more than half in the last two weeks because of the s . e . c . investigation and worries about off - balance - sheet debts and transactions with investment partnerships involving the company ' s former chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow , who was ousted last week . enron shares fell $ 1 . 91 today , to $ 11 . 99 .
some analysts are beginning to attribute a swift recent rally in natural gas prices in part to the possibility that a collapse of enron would roil the commodity markets . enron dominates natural gas and electricity trading in the united states .
in new york today , natural gas for december delivery fell 0 . 1 cent , to $ 3 . 29 for a million british thermal units . the contract has soared from about $ 2 . 70 over the last two weeks as enron ' s troubles became public .
' ' enron has a massive exposure to both the buy side and the sell side in gas and other commodities , ' ' said jay saunders , oil and gas analyst at deutsche banc alex . brown , ' ' and if they ' re at risk financially , then you ' re exposed to that so you want to cover that risk . anybody who has enron as a counterparty in a trade might be concerned about getting paid . ' '
mr . saunders added that other factors had also lifted prices lately , including falling rates of gas being put in storage for use this winter .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones metro desk
the state calpers is urged to challenge enron finance : the public employee pension fund holds 3 million shares of the energy firm , whose stock has plunged . state senator calls for action .
nancy vogel
times staff writer
11 / 02 / 2001
los angeles times
home edition
b - 8
copyright 2001 / the times mirror company
sacramento - - a state senator has encouraged the managers of california ' s public employee retirement fund to challenge , perhaps with a lawsuit , the management of enron corp . , the high - flying energy company whose stock has plummeted more than 80 % in the last year .
the california public employee retirement system , the nation ' s biggest public pension fund , owns roughly 3 million shares of enron common stock . enron shares , once valued at nearly $ 85 , fell $ 1 . 91 thursday to $ 11 . 99 on the new york stock exchange .
sen . steve peace ( d - el cajon ) urged management of calpers to deal aggressively with the houston - based company , which is being investigated by the securities and exchange commission for a potential conflict of interest by its former chief financial officer .
investors have begun complaining of a paucity of information released by enron about its financial transactions , and the stock has fallen dramatically in response . on thursday , a major credit agency , standard & poor ' s , lowered its ratings on enron , dealing the company another financial blow .
" it is clear that the events surrounding enron have created a serious lack of confidence in the judgment of enron ' s management team , " peace wrote tuesday in a letter to calpers chief executive james e . burton . " it is , therefore , incumbent on calpers , as trustee of public employees ' ownership rights and as founder of the corporate governance movement , to improve enron ' s corporate governance to increase share value . "
in an interview , peace said calpers should consider a shareholder lawsuit or join with other shareholders to force out enron ' s management . calpers provides retirement and health benefits to more than 1 . 2 million state and local public employees and their families .
enron officials did not respond to a request for comment on peace ' s letter . calpers officials said they were considering the letter .
peace has clashed repeatedly with enron since the early 1990 s , when the company was trying to influence the utility regulators and lawmakers forging a plan to turn california ' s regulated electricity industry into a competitive market . peace chaired the legislative committee that crafted deregulation legislation .
" enron wants a market where consumers have limited knowledge , and they want to operate their business where stockholders have the most limited information possible , " peace said in an interview .
once a natural gas pipeline company , enron has grown into the world ' s largest energy trader .
besides owning enron stock , calpers has joined with the firm to invest in energy development .
in 1993 , calpers and enron each contributed $ 250 million to an investment fund guided by enron . when calpers ended the partnership in 1997 and sold its position to enron , it earned $ 125 million , a 23 % return , a calpers spokesman said . they teamed up again in 1998 , with each putting up $ 500 million for energy industry investments . enron tapped $ 150 million of calpers ' money before calpers ' commitment to the partnership expired .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
financial
financing offers lure buyers
11 / 02 / 2001
the washington post
final
eo 2
copyright 2001 , the washington post co . all rights reserved
thanks to interest - free financing , general motors and ford motor reported sharply higher october auto sales while chrysler saw a more modest rise . gm reported that it sold 546 , 093 vehicles last month , a 31 percent increase over october 2000 . ford sold 400 , 893 vehicles in october , 36 percent more than the same month a year ago . sales of daimlerchrysler ' s chrysler , dodge and jeep brand vehicles were up 5 percent , with just more than 209 , 000 units sold . gm set an all - time monthly record for truck sales , while sales of ford ' s beleaguered explorer suv set an october record .
enron gets loan - - at a price
enron received a $ 1 billion loan from j . p . morgan chase and salomon smith barney but had to pledge its natural gas pipelines as collateral . pledging the pipelines signals enron ' s desperation to convince shareholders and trading partners that it ' s creditworthy as the securities and exchange commission investigates partnerships run by its former chief financial officer , investors said . questions about enron ' s dealings with the partnerships have shut it out of commercial - paper markets , where most large corporations go to find low - interest , short - term debt .
http : / / www . washingtonpost . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies nov 2 , 2001
by julie earle and john labate
nothing has added to enron ' s growth more than its aggressive and dominant position in the trading markets for gas and electricity that the houston - based company helped to create .
a decade - long series of bold and innovative moves by enron has not only changed the company but transformed the way us energy companies manage risk and trade energy products from region to region .
on any given day enron is the principal in about 25 per cent of the online and offline trades in the energy and natural gas markets , according to analysts ' estimates .
with an ongoing investigation by us securities regulators into enron ' s accounting and disclosure practices , and enron ' s market value falling by half in the past two weeks , many are wondering what impact enron ' s mounting troubles could have on the trading markets .
analysts say that in the worst case , long - term scenarios , if enron ' s debt is downgraded to junk status or if the company depletes its considerable cash resources , the energy and natural gas markets could be hit in multiple ways .
" if you have something as big as enron in a space saying they have no more money , you would have real effects and volatility in the market , " said todd shipman , an analyst at credit rating agency standard & poor ' s .
few competitors want to see enron exit the trading markets , however , since it provides so much liquidity to the markets , and fewer expect that to happen .
many of enron ' s energy rivals , including dynegy , aquila and duke energy , are also trading partners , or counterparties to enron . as such they may be closely tied to enron ' s fate in the short term .
the biggest near - term threat is if there is another change in enron ' s credit status .
this week moody ' s investors service downgraded enron to two notches above junk status . further reductions are , for the moment , the main worry among its rivals and trading partners , although enron debt remains at investment - grade levels .
" certainly , whenever anybody is downgraded to junk status , their counterparties become concerned about how much credit they will extend , " said gerald keenan , a partner at pwc consulting in chicago .
" everyone is re - evaluating their credit exposure to enron but few companies have stopped trading with it .
" it is often the counterparty of choice since it makes markets in areas where there is not a lot of liquidity . "
enron ' s trading partners are believed so far not to have changed the terms on their existing contracts with enron .
however , if enron ' s financial status worsens , the lack of confidence could have its own negative impact on the energy trading markets .
existing market hedges between these multiple firms in the markets could begin to unwind , analysts warn , which could add to short - term instability in the energy marketplace .
it is unlikely , however , that energy prices would be hit since terms would quickly be renegotiated and stability return to the trading markets .
any change in ownership in enron could bring stability to the trading markets , say analysts .
copyright : the financial times limited
companies nov 2 , 2001
by robert clow and sheila mcnulty
enron , the troubled us energy trading group , has secured a dollars lbn credit line with jp morgan chase and citigroup arm , salomon smith barney .
enron ' s management signalled last weekend that it expected to raise more cash to supplement the dollars 3 . 3 bn it received last week from drawing down its bank lines .
the new loan will be secured against the assets of enron ' s northern natural gas company and transwestern pipeline . the proceeds will pay down maturing debt and increase short - term funds .
enron declined to comment on the terms and conditions of the deal , saying it was not yet closed .
on octoberm , 16 enron management announced a dollars 1 . 01 bn charge and a dollars 1 . 2 bn reduction of shareholders equity as a result of off - balance sheet private equity transactions set up by andrew fastow , its former chief financial officer .
those deals raised questions about whether mr fastow was acting in the best interests of enron ' s other shareholders , which became the basis for a securities and exchange commission investigation .
if the credit rating agencies downgrade the company ' s debt further , counterparties might increase the collateral they require to trade with enron . that could squeeze the embattled company ' s profit margins still further .
it is not yet clear how the rating agencies will react to enron borrowing against its pipeline assets . their stable revenues have been one of the cornerstones of enron ' s rating .
in an effort to safeguard its ratings , a senior management delegation told all the rating agencies on wednesday that it was going to be retreating from risk taking .
" we are going to explore new markets , " the company said . " but what we have learned that we can expand into new markets without making large expenditures . " www . ft . com / energy
copyright : the financial times limited
world stock markets : wall st buoyed by microsoft peace talks
financial times ; nov 2 , 2001
by mary chung
us equities overcameearly hesitancy to risedecisively by midday as investors shrugged off grim manufacturing data and focused on microsoft ' s tentative agreement to settle its antitrust battle with the government .
the dow jones industrial average was up 67 . 59 at 9 , 142 . 73 and the s & p 500 index 8 . 60 at 1 , 068 . 38 . the nasdaq composite rose 23 . 66 at 1 , 713 . 86 .
investors cheered news that the us justice department and microsoft had agreed the outline of a settlement requiring the world ' s largest software company to give computer manufacturers more freedom in the design of windows desktops .
microsoft rose 4 per cent at dollars 60 . 54 and gave a boost to the technology sector as shares in oracle added 2 per cent dollars 13 . 79 , cisco climbed 1 . 4 per cent at dollars 17 . 15 and sun microsystems gained 4 per cent at dollars 10 . 55 .
chip stocks were broadly higher , with the philadelphia semiconductor index up 4 per cent . shares in intel tacked on 2 . 2 per cent at dollars 24 . 97 and advanced micro devices climbed 6 . 3 per cent at dollars 10 . 46 .
the sector was boosted by an industry report showing the third consecutive month of smaller declines for chip sales . stocks had flirted in negative territory after more disappointing economic data painting a bleak picture for the us economy .
the national association of purchasing management data showing factory activity fell to a nine - year low in october .
the data followed a report from the labour department showing the number of americans requesting unemployment insurance benefits on an ongoing basis rose to the highest since may 1983 .
subodh kumar , chief investment strategist at cibc world markets , said he was encouraged by the market ' s ability to bounce back from negative news .
" even when bad news happens , there ' s initial weakness then the market bounces back , " he said .
however , woes continued for enron , the embattled energy trading company , which fell 9 . 4 per cent at dollars 12 . 59 after the us securities and exchange commission upgraded its probe into the company ' s accounting methods to a formal investigation .
united airlines rose 2 per cent at dollars 13 in spite of a third - quarter loss of dollars 1 . 16 bn .
eastman kodak rebounded 2 per cent at dollars 26 . 07 after seeing heavy losses this week amid an analyst downgrade and a cut in its debt rating by moody ' s investor service .
toronto was flat in late morning trade and by midsession the tse - 300 composite index was just 8 . 30 higher at 6 , 894 . 00 .
banks bucked the weaker trend . bank of nova scotia jumped 60 cents to cdollars 44 . 45 and bank of montreal was 33 cents higher at 34 . 19 .
copyright : the financial times limited
nov . 2 , 2001
houston chronicle
enron gets $ 1 billion more
pledging assets , credit downgrade bruise shares
by laura goldberg
copyright 2001 houston chronicle
enron corp . ' s bid to shore up investor confidence by announcing it had lined up $ 1 billion in credit didn ' t succeed thursday .
shares in houston ' s largest company closed down $ 1 . 91 at $ 11 . 99 . and that was before a second rating agency downgraded enron ' s credit ratings .
the action by standard & poor ' s wasn ' t a surprise to wall street and isn ' t likely to help enron ' s sagging shares .
enron , the world ' s largest energy trader , said thursday morning it had reached a deal with the investment banking units of citigroup and j . p . morgan chase & co . for $ 1 billion in credit lines to be backed by a significant portion of enron ' s pipeline assets .
last week , enron tapped into a $ 3 . 3 billion revolving credit line that wasn ' t secured by collateral . it banked about $ 1 . 1 billion and is using the rest to pay off short - term debt obligations .
investors reacted thursday to several pieces of news .
one was wednesday night ' s disclosure by enron that federal securities regulators are formally investigating business dealings between enron and investment partnerships formerly run by andrew fastow , who enron removed last week as chief financial officer .
since enron revealed two financial hits related to the investment partnerships on oct . 16 , wall street has raised an expanding number of questions about its financial health . some investors also saw the fact that enron ' s new credit will be asset - backed as negative .
" what it tells you is that now they have to start using the crown jewels as security , " said donald coxe , chairman of harris investment management , where the harris insight equity fund owns about 78 , 000 shares in enron . " any royal fa