Subject: enron mentions
enron looks for investors , but finds them skittish
the new york times , 11 / 07 / 01
companies & finance the americas - companies scale back enron business
financial times , 11 / 07 / 01
enron ' s weaknesses threaten industry
los angeles times , 11 / 07 / 01
s america ' s freer markets - - - one burst bubble vs . two
the wall street journal , 11 / 07 / 01
a war casualty ? ; the experts say supplies are safe , but the longer the afghan fight , the greater the risk
newsweek , 11 / 12 / 01
enron cancels meeting with dabhol power lenders on court action
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
india : update 1 - india lenders seek court action over enron plant .
reuters english news service , 11 / 07 / 01
enron india : dabhol pwr lenders ' singapore mtg canceled
dow jones energy service , 11 / 07 / 01
india : tata power may ask lenders for loan write - off in dpc
business line ( the hindu ) , 11 / 07 / 01
path paved for due diligence by tata and bses
business standard , 11 / 07 / 01
domestic lenders file lawsuit against enron ' s indian unit
agence france - presse , 11 / 07 / 01
former enron ceo testifies before sec tuesday - exec
dow jones energy service , 11 / 06 / 01
usa : wrapup - enron shares sink as company looks for cash .
reuters english news service , 11 / 06 / 01
usa : buyout funds flock to enron ? might be a pipe dream .
reuters english news service , 11 / 06 / 01
usa : enron shows few signs of restoring battered image .
reuters english news service , 11 / 06 / 01
playing the flux with enron
realmoney . com , 11 / 06 / 01
look ahead instead of looking for market justice
realmoney . com , 11 / 06 / 01
business / financial desk ; section c
enron looks for investors , but finds them skittish
by richard a . oppel jr . and andrew ross sorkin
11 / 07 / 2001
the new york times
page 2 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
enron ' s attempt to quietly line up a big - name investor to demonstrate its financial strength seems to have backfired .
overtures to several prominent investors have failed to turn up any takers , sending the stock to a new low yesterday . uncertainty about the impact of enron ' s troubles have also prompted one big energy trader to unwind some positions .
representatives of enron , the energy trading company based in houston , have approached warren e . buffett , the chairman of berkshire hathaway , but he decided not to pursue a major investment in the company , according to a person close to the talks . part of mr . buffett ' s reluctance was an unwillingness to sign a confidentiality agreement with the company that would preclude him from trading in enron ' s debt , the person said . officials of berkshire hathaway did not return phone calls tuesday .
more than a dozen buyout firms , including clayton , dubilier the blackstone group , and kohlberg kravis roberts , have expressed little interest , according to a person close to the talks . the g . e . capital unit of general electric has also been approached , this person said , and has not ruled out an investment . officials from all of the companies declined comment or did not return telephone calls . the overtures were reported tuesday by the wall street journal .
although it used its pipeline assets last week to secure a $ 1 billion credit line , the company ' s ability to obtain additional financing is unclear to investors . shares of enron fell $ 1 . 50 yesterday to $ 9 . 67 , the lowest since 1992 .
enron could lose its investment - grade credit rating . if it did , traders might shift their business elsewhere because of additional risk . a ratings cut could also trigger early redemption of debt that enron has guaranteed , forcing the company to issue tens of millions of new shares to cover the debt .
moody ' s investors service and standard & poor ' s rate enron two notches above ' ' junk ' ' status , while fitch investors service lowered it this week to just one notch above junk . fitch cited ' ' the difficulties enron faces in managing its liquidity position in the face of an erosion in investor confidence ' ' and said that it would consider further downgrades .
the company ' s prospects are further clouded by an investigation into enron ' s finances by the securities and exchange commission . on tuesday , officials with the milken institute said jeffrey k . skilling , enron ' s former chief executive officer who resigned in august , had to cancel a seminar appearance because he had to go to washington . a spokesman for mr . skilling said he was not in washington today , but that he was planning to answer questions from the s . e . c .
according to a person close to the company , enron hopes within the next week to outline publicly the various off - balance - sheet debts and related - party transactions that have drawn the attention of the s . e . c .
officials with other large energy companies , including duke energy , dynegy inc . and reliant inc . , declined comment tuesday on whether they have had discussions about making an investment in enron .
a senior executive at the el paso corporation , the houston natural gas giant with a market capitalization that is now three times that of enron , said the company might be interested in acquiring assets from enron but was unlikely to do a large transaction . ' ' we like companies that have hard assets , ' ' said the executive , adding that no talks were under way about asset purchases , although the executive said el paso officials believe enron will survive this crisis .
large energy traders said tuesday that they are still doing business with enron , though they continue to watch the situation very closely . some executives also said some energy producers may be steering business away from enron and to other traders and marketers .
an enron spokesman said that transaction volume remains unchanged in the company ' s north american natural gas and power business - - which accounts for more than 90 percent of the company ' s trading .
officials at one of the largest independent natural gas producers , the apache corporation of houston , said they have unwound nearly all of their hedges on gas prices in the last few days over concerns about what would happen to the marketplace for energy derivatives if enron collapsed . apache , like many gas producers , had entered into financial contracts allowing it to sell natural gas at set prices . with the steep drop in prices this year , apache has large paper gains on those contracts .
apache has been able to unwind all but one hedge , a complicated transaction that involves enron and other parties , said ray plank , apache ' s chairman . the primary reason for unwinding the hedges , he said , ' ' is that the market is having to digest the major impact of enron ' s credit problems . ' '
apache has about a gain of about $ 70 million from the various transactions , he said . ' ' we ' ve got a stack of chips in front of us , and we decided we ' d take them and get out of the game . ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies & finance the americas - companies scale back enron business
by robert clow , julie earle and sheila mcnulty .
11 / 07 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
energy houston company feels commercial impact of continuing public relations crisis .
counterparties are starting to withdraw their business from enron , in an early sign that the embattled company ' s trading business could be adversely affected by the company ' s continuing public relations crisis .
aquila said it had been reducing its exposure to enron for some time because of its risk limits . the company ' s risk - management controls have obliged it to scale down exposure to enron as dealing with the houston - based energy trader has come to be considered more of a risk .
separately , apache , an oil company , said it was closing out of some of the hedges it had put on with enron .
raymond plank , apache chairman and chief executive , said his company was now pulling back from all hedging , including those with enron . " if they have 25 per cent of the market , and they continue to have the problems which are evident daily , they could start a tidal wave , which could affect other elements of the futures market , " he said .
mr plank added that apache was also to stop selling enron crude oil , the only other business it did with the energy company . " we don ' t want the credit risk , " he said .
an enron spokesman said aquila remained one of enron ' s most prominent counterparties , though he added that he could not comment about whether aquila might have reduced its credit exposure to enron . apache is a small customer in what , for enron , is a small business , he added .
enron has been under pressure since october 16 , when management announced that the company had incurred a $ 1 . 01 bn charge and $ 1 . 2 bn reduction of shareholders ' equity as a result of some off - balance sheet dealings . the company has also become the subject of a securities and exchange commission investigation as a result of those dealings .
since that announcement the company ' s share price has fallen more than 50 per cent and enron ' s long - term debt has been downgraded by all three leading credit rating agencies .
but despite the pr crisis , enron has repeatedly stressed that its core trading business has been performing well .
enron counterparties ' growing wariness comes at a time of continuing nervousness over the company ' s balance sheet . one of the company ' s first actions after the initial announcement was to draw down $ 3 . 3 bn of bank lines to protect itself against fickle commercial - paper lenders spurning it . then , earlier this week , enron followed that up by raising $ 1 bn from a secured credit line co - arranged by jp morgan chase and citigroup .
at the time of the new bank deal , an official close to the bank group described the funds as " comfort " funds which the company could simply " stack up in the lobby " , in order to reassure investors .
unfortunately , the loan does not seem to have reassured investors as much as was hoped . enron is now talking to private equity firms , including the blackstone group , about supporting it with a $ 2 bn investment .
off - balance sheet entities affiliated to enron owe $ 8 bn - $ 9 bn in debt . enron itself is carrying $ 12 . 8 bn in debt .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones financial desk
enron ' s weaknesses threaten industry
james flanigan ; nancy rivera brooks
times staff writers
11 / 07 / 2001
los angeles times
home edition
c - 1
copyright 2001 / the times mirror company
executives in the energy industry voiced concern tuesday at the continuing decline in the value and credit rating of enron corp . and questioned how long chief executive kenneth lay will keep his job .
enron ' s stock slumped to its lowest point in 91 / 2 years on reports that the houston - based energy giant is stumping for a cash infusion of $ 2 billion or more .
the fear among executives across many energy sectors is that enron ' s ability to maintain markets in contracts for electricity and natural gas would collapse under the weight of its falling credit standing and the growing reluctance of other energy companies to do business with it .
enron is the world ' s largest trader of energy contracts , taking in more than $ 140 billion in revenue in the first nine months of this year from buying and selling electric power and natural gas contracts worth more than $ 500 billion in aggregate .
industry sources estimate that enron is involved in one - third of all energy contracts . if such a market maker could not function because of lack of financing , the ripple effects could be a disaster for energy industries , experts said .
" what we ' re seeing is a threat to far more than a single company or even a single industry , " one energy investor said .
leading energy executives have been approached by institutional investors to consider forming a new management team , sources said tuesday . such a team would step in at enron to work out its difficulties , which stem from transactions and obligations the company evidently made with at least 33 off - balance - sheet partnerships from which enron managers profited .
lawyers suing the company say enron used the affiliated partnerships to hide liabilities from shareholders . investors also have accused company executives of conflicts of interest because they acted on investments for both the company and the partnerships .
the thinking in energy circles in houston and elsewhere , sources said , is that enron chairman and ceo lay would have to resign to allow the company to attract fresh financing . enron was reported tuesday in the wall street journal to be seeking $ 2 billion in financing .
sources in houston reported that the company was discussing emergency financing with blackstone group , a new york - based investment firm . widespread reports had major oil companies , particularly royal dutch / shell group , considering a buyout of enron .
jeffrey skilling , who resigned suddenly in august as enron ' s ceo , was reported to be under subpoena to testify in washington . enron is under investigation by the securities and exchange commission for possibly failing to properly disclose off - balance - sheet partnerships to shareholders .
meanwhile , the company ' s stock declined $ 1 . 50 a share to $ 9 . 67 on the new york stock exchange , the stock ' s lowest closing price since 1992 . less than a year ago , enron stock sold for $ 84 . 88 a share .
enron ' s credit rating has been downgraded by fitch inc . , standard & poor ' s and moody ' s investors service , with fitch on monday taking the company ' s credit to bbb - , one level above noninvestment grade .
fitch analyst ralph pellecchia said his agency would drop enron to junk status if the company made no progress in reducing its debt , if its trading business were to show signs of significant deterioration or if expenses and charges from noncore businesses it is selling should exceed current estimates .
a rating below investment grade would present further obstacles to enron ' s ability to continue making markets in electricity and natural gas supplies . a fall below investment grade also would trigger early repayment of $ 3 . 3 billion in bonds that otherwise would not be due until 2002 and 2003 .
" there are a lot of things they can do that people might perceive as being positive , " pellecchia said . " they are trying to show that they have the cash available and the capacity of managing their businesses over time , of getting out of bad businesses and running their business more openly and transparently . obviously , this is a process . "
enron ' s troubles have cascaded of late . the company reported a $ 618 - million loss in the third quarter and a $ 1 . 2 - billon reduction in shareholder equity - - after two years in which its annual revenue more than trebled .
the company led a trend in energy trading , creating an internet - based network , enrononline , that allowed millions of suppliers and purchasers of electricity , natural gas , oil and coal to trade with one another . enron made markets in all those commodities , putting up its own capital to buy and sell them .
it is that key role as a clearinghouse that has put enron in greatest peril because it needs a continuing flow of cash to act as " the buyer for every seller and the seller to every buyer , " said philip k . verleger jr . , a newport beach energy economist .
" enron is now trying to reach out to other people to get them to fund this enrononline . . . but a lot of companies have been moving business out of enron , " he said .
ironically , california is in the position to help push enron deeper into trouble , verleger said .
that is because enron is owed millions of dollars by california for electricity sold to the state and its utilities during the power crisis , and enron , in its role as market maker , probably has a hand in many of the controversial long - term power contracts signed this year by the state . gov . gray davis , other politicians and state regulators have repeatedly accused enron of overcharging for electricity .
" if gray davis were to pull the plug on the state ' s electricity deals with enron or other firms , he quite possibly could put enron into bankruptcy , " verleger said . " how quickly things change . "
if enron were to collapse , he said , much of the company ' s trading business could simply migrate to smaller competitors , as happened when junk - bond powerhouse drexel burnham lambert inc . folded in 1990 . but such a collapse could seriously damage the trading of electricity , he said , because enron pioneered that market and its complex financial instruments .
*
bloomberg news was used in compiling this report .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
s & p lowers rating on yosemite securities co . ' s notes to ' bbb '
11 / 07 / 2001
pr newswire
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , pr newswire )
london , nov . 7 / prnewswire / - - standard & poor ' s today lowered its rating on the gbp 200 million 8 . 75 % series 2000 - a linked enron obligations issued by yosemite securities co . ltd . to ' bbb ' from ' bbb + ' .
the rating action is a consequence of the downgrade of enron corp . ' s senior unsecured debt rating , which acts as support to yosemite securities co . ltd . , to ' bbb ' from ' bbb + ' on nov . 1 , 2001 .
/ contact : perry inglis of standard & poor ' s , london , + 44 - 20 - 7826 - 3857 / 07 : 32 est
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
fund track
mutual - fund manager exits merrill lynch
by tom lauricella
staff reporter of the wall street journal
11 / 07 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl 8
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - - james d . mccall , a star mutual - fund manager when he was hired two years ago by merrill lynch & co . but whose investment performance took a breathtaking fall as tech stocks crumbled , left the company .
the two merrill funds run by mr . mccall , who specializes in aggressive , fast - trading stock picking , are among the worst - performing stock funds of any kind over the last year , costing investors hundreds of millions of dollars since his big bets on technology turned sour during the past year .
the $ 329 million merrill lynch focus twenty fund lost shareholders 81 % of their investment during the past 12 months . mr . mccall ' s other portfolio , the $ 66 million premier growth fund , is down 68 % . when the two portfolios were rolled out during the spring of 2000 , investors entrusted $ 1 . 2 billion to the funds .
a merrill spokesman said mr . mccall , 48 years old , wasn ' t available to comment and that the firm wouldn ' t comment on the reason for his departure .
mr . mccall ' s resignation is the first high - profile departure from the merrill lynch investment managers since jeffrey peek , the group ' s president , resigned in late september after being passed over for the post of president at the brokerage firm . that post instead went to e . stanley o ' neal .
mr . peek recruited mr . mccall slightly more than two years ago from pilgrim baxter & associates , a wayne , pa . , money manager , with the aim of broadening merrill ' s then - struggling fund lineup away from its focus on the bargain - oriented value stocks , which at the time were out of favor . mr . mccall ' s specialty is aggressively trading the stocks of fast - growing companies in a style known as momentum investing . his portfolios often were concentrated among small numbers of stocks , adding to their volatile nature .
while at pilgrim baxter , mr . mccall ' s funds were among the top - performing portfolios of their kind . in 1998 , for example , the pbhg large cap 20 fund gained 68 % in a year when the standard & poor ' s 500 - stock index rose 28 . 5 % .
however , even before mr . mccall joined merrill , there was controversy . mr . peek ' s efforts to lure him away from pilgrim baxter turned into a legal battle between merrill and pilgrim baxter , which eventually was settled under terms that weren ' t publicly disclosed . but what proved to be a bigger problem was that at just about the moment that merrill launched mr . mccall ' s funds to great fanfare , his style of investing went cold .
" talk about an ill - fated venture , " says russel kinnel , director of fund analysis at morningstar inc . " they couldn ' t have timed it worse . "
even compared with other growth funds , mr . mccall ' s funds posted exceptionally large losses . while the focus twenty fund has lost 72 % since the start of the year , the average large - cap growth fund is down 27 . 5 % , according to morningstar .
mr . mccall ' s portfolios were heavily invested in technology , telecommunications and biotechnology stocks . mr . mccall also had a big wager on enron corp . , the energy company whose stock has plunged 88 % during the year . according to the most recent information available , enron was the ninth - largest position in the focus twenty fund .
" his numbers are shockingly bad even by the standard of other growth momentum funds , " mr . kinnel says . " if you look at what is in the funds . . . if it went down , he owned it . "
taking mr . mccall ' s place on both funds will be another pbhg veteran , michael hahn . mr . hahn currently manages merrill ' s $ 11 million mid cap growth fund , which also has had a rough year , losing 57 % . the merrill spokesman said mr . mccall " is making himself available to assist in the transition " of the funds management to mr . hahn .
morningstar ' s mr . kinnel said despite the fund ' s poor performance , " the fact that they are putting mike hahn on the funds indicates that merrill isn ' t throwing in the towel on the momentum strategy . "
by late yesterday , mr . mccall ' s name and photograph had been replaced by mr . hahn ' s on the merrill web site .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
nov . 7 , 2001
houston chronicle
skilling , sec to talk on enron dealings
by laura goldberg
copyright 2001 houston chronicle
jeff skilling , the former chief executive officer of enron corp . , has been contacted by the securities and exchange commission .
the sec is investigating business dealings between enron and investment partnerships run by the company ' s recently removed chief financial officer , andrew fastow .
skilling plans to answer questions from the sec , denis calabrese , a spokesman for skilling , said tuesday .
wall street has raised a number of questions about enron ' s financial reporting and stability since the company released third - quarter earnings oct . 16 .
in the earnings report , enron disclosed it had taken a $ 35 million loss related to ending its relationships with investment partnerships formerly run by fastow , who was then chief financial officer . it also reduced shareholders ' equity by $ 1 . 2 billion .
fastow resigned his role with the partnerships , called ljm cayman and ljm 2 co - investment , in june after criticism from some on wall street . enron replaced him oct . 24 . skilling unexpectedly resigned in august as ceo , citing personal reasons .
enron has previously said its auditors and attorneys reviewed the fastow - ljm arrangements and that its board was fully informed of and approved the arrangements .
however , a special board committee is now reviewing transactions involving ljm and possibly other entities .
shares in enron fell $ 1 . 50 tuesday to $ 9 . 67 .
warren buffet ' s berkshire won ' t invest in enron , nyt reports
2001 - 11 - 07 04 : 17 ( new york )
houston , nov . 7 ( bloomberg ) - - berkshire hathaway inc . ' s
chairman warren buffett won ' t invest in enron corp . , the largest
energy trader , the new york times reported , citing an unidentified
person close to the talks .
buffett , who decided against investing because he was
unwilling to sign a confidentiality agreement that would preclude
him from trading in enron ' s debt , is one of a number of people and
firms approached by the energy company , the paper said .
clayton , dubilier & rice , the blackstone group and kohlberg
kravis roberts & co . have all shown little interest , a person
familiar with the talks said , according to the nyt . general
electric co . ' s ge capital unit hasn ' t ruled out an investment , the
paper cited the source a saying .
the securities and exchange commission is investigating
enron partnerships run by its former chief financial officer ,
andrew fastow . the entities bought and sold enron shares and
assets , with the trades costing enron $ 35 million and $ 1 . 2 billion
in lost shareholder equity . enron , which is seeking $ 2 billion in
private money , ousted fastow last month , the journal reported .
abreast of the market
caterpillar , ge , dupont advance , as markets climb ` wall of worry '
by robert o ' brien
dow jones newswires
11 / 07 / 2001
the wall street journal
c 2
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones that broached concerns that the company won ' t realize its ambitions of turning cash - flow positive in the second quarter of 2002 .
cephalon ( nasdaq ) added 1 . 04 , or 1 . 6 % , to 65 . 55 . the west chester , pa . , biopharmaceuticals concern posted what analysts described as strong third - quarter results , and the company raised its 2001 earnings forecast . cibc world markets , calling the results a blowout quarter , reiterated its strong buy rating on the stock .
enron fell to a 52 - week low on heavy volume ; with 45 million shares changing hands , the stock declined 1 . 50 , or 13 % , to 9 . 67 . the wall street journal reported yesterday that the energy giant is seeking another capital infusion of at least $ 2 billion .
shares of jabil circuit rose 1 . 58 , or 6 . 4 % , to 26 . 43 , after thomas weisel partners identified the st . petersburg , fla . , contract electronics manufacturer as a prospective beneficiary of improvements in cisco ' s sales ; jabil provides outsourcing services to cisco .
sap ' s american depositary shares added 1 . 60 , or 5 . 8 % , to 29 . 11 . the german enterprise - software maker introduced an enhanced integration - software product . credit suisse first boston said it didn ' t think the introduction of the product would have any short - or medium - term impact on sap ' s earnings prospects , but that it did signal the importance of the integration - software market .
shares of some integration - software developers , such as tibco software ( nasdaq ) , which fell eight cents , or 0 . 8 % , to 9 . 41 , lost ground on the prospects of increased competition in its market .
rsa security ( nasdaq ) gained 23 cents , or 1 . 7 % , to 13 . 73 . salomon smith barney described the bedford , mass . , provider of network - security products and data - encryption software as one likely beneficiary of the federal government ' s security spending package .
time warner telecom ( nasdaq ) advanced 1 . 57 , or 15 % , to 12 . 12 . the littleton , colo . , telecommunications - services provider reported third - quarter results that showed a sharp jump in revenue , though its losses increased over a year earlier , due in part to costs related to an acquisition .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
world stock markets - wall st trims its losses on word from fed .
by mary chung .
11 / 07 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
us stocks trimmed their their losses , immediately following the federal reserve ' s decision to lower short - term interest rates by 50 basis points yesterday .
wall street had widely expected the central bank to cut rates for the 10 th time this year to help stimulate the us economy . but the decision by the fed policymakers to cut by more aggressive 50 bp lowering the federal funds rate to 2 per cent following a recent rash of grim economic data bolstered the market . in late trading , the dow jones industrial average was off 9 . 82 at 9 , 431 . 21 and the s & p 500 index 2 . 25 at 1 , 100 . 59 . the nasdaq composite gained 1 . 41 at 1 , 795 . 06 .
cisco systems offered some cheer and earlier bolstered the technology sector after the networking company reported sales and earning above wall street forecasts and said the downturn in the sector may have bottomed . several analysts , encouraged by cisco ' s earnings performance , raised their rating on the company . shares rose 2 . 4 per cent at $ 18 . 33 while rival juniper networks slipped 2 . 6 per cent at $ 22 .
microsoft edged slightly higher , up 0 . 1 per cent at $ 63 . 34 , as six of the 18 states suing the software company said they opposed the justice department - backed settlement but would consider continued talks with the company .
shares in leading technology stocks were mixed as oracle and ciena dipped while intel and sun microsystems gained .
metropolitan life dipped 0 . 4 per cent at $ 27 . 80 after the largest us public life insurer reported lower third - quarter earnings .
walt disney was the biggest loser on the dow , down 4 per cent at $ 18 . 39 after goldman sachs downgraded the stock , citing an anticipated decline in disney ' s fiscal september 2002 earnings and the lack of a sustainable near - term catalyst .
goldman also said : " despite the box office success of monsters , 2002 earnings are under particular pressure at disney world and the broadcasting division . "
pixar animation , the company that co - produced the hit movie , continued its decline , down 1 . 6 per cent at $ 34 . 40 following a downgrade by prudential securities earlier this week .
the energy sector saw the heaviest losses with exxonmobil down 2 per cent at $ 38 . 61 and enron , the embattled energy trading company , off another 11 per cent at $ 9 . 93 .
toronto was little changed in early trading as investors awaited news of the us federal reserve ' s interest rate intentions . at midsession the s & p 300 composite index was virtually all square at 7 , 076 . 80 .
nortel networks added 35 cents at c $ 10 . 34 .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones the us $ 1 . 27 - billion acquisition of an electric plant in brazil in 1998 ; and the us $ 2 . 51 - billion purchase of a water company in the united kingdom in 1998 .
in the late 1990 s , enron executives changed course . the company said it would sell pipelines and power plants to make money almost entirely from trading energy , rather than producing it . the plan succeeded . last year , 97 % of enron ' s revenue came from trading and advising industrial customers on energy use .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones america ' s freer markets - - - one burst bubble vs . two
by jacob m . schlesinger and peter landers
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 07 / 2001
the wall street journal
al
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones in the 1990 s , the u . s . held that distinction . in both cases , the good times ended with the bursting of a stock - market bubble , pricked , at least in part , by a nervous central bank . in both cases , predictions of a quick turnaround proved to be wrong .
the excessive american investment in fiber - optic high - speed phone lines echoes japan ' s decade - earlier investment binge in memory - chip factories . the plight of one well - respected american company , enron corp . - - which has lost two - thirds of its market value in just three weeks - - is reminiscent of the previously invisible weakness japan ' s slump exposed at many of that country ' s banks . even the recent squabbling in the u . s . congress that threatens to derail a package of economic - stimulus measures sounds eerily similar to the bureaucratic and political wrangling that stymied bold fixes in japan .
and now , u . s . monetary policy , considered to be the most powerful tool for countering the nation ' s downturns , is looking increasingly like japan ' s , as interest rates fall toward zero .
japan has endured a decade of stagnation . could that happen here ?
most analysts continue to answer with a resounding no . they point out that japan burst not just a stock - market bubble , but also a real - estate bubble , which in turn laid low its banking system . the u . s . bubble appears to have been limited to stoc