Subject: enron mentions
dynegy is in talks on purchasing enron - - - deal would include infusion of cash to assist firm in shoring up finances
the wall street journal , 11 / 08 / 01
dynegy is said to be near to acquiring enron for $ 8 billion
the new york times , 11 / 08 / 01
trading places : fancy finances were key to enron ' s success , and now to its distress - - - impenetrable deals have put firm in position where it may lose independence - - - talks with rival dynegy
the wall street journal , 11 / 08 / 01
unit of enron is challenged
the new york times , 11 / 08 / 01
enron in takeover talks with dynegy
los angeles times , 11 / 08 / 01
front page - first section : enron board considering takeover by rival dynegy : energy trader seeks emergency talks with banks amid fears over cash crisis
financial times ; nov 8 , 2001
front page - companies nov 8 , 2001
companies nov 8 , 2001
dynegy may acquire enron
houston chronicle , 11 / 08 / 01
enron deals downshifted at breakneck speed
houston chronicle , 11 / 08 / 01
azurix completes sales of two units
houston chronicle , 11 / 08 / 01
troubled enron negotiates sale to rival dynegy
the washington post , 11 / 08 / 01
dynegy may offer as much as $ 8 billion for enron : wsj ( updatel )
2001 - 11 - 08 05 : 32 ( new york )
reports : dynegy close to deal to buy enron for $ 8 billion
associated press newswires , 11 / 08 / 01
chevrontexaco affiliate dynegy in talks to buy enron for 7 - 8 bln usd - report
afx news , 11 / 08 / 01
usa : update 1 - fund alleges fat fees biased andersen on enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 08 / 01
enron ' s power company reverses itself , says it is meeting with indian representatives in singapore
associated press newswires , 11 / 08 / 01
enron india unit ' s lenders issue court challenge to prevent project pullout
afx news , 11 / 08 / 01
dabhol pwr co confirms creditors mtg in singapore thu
dow jones energy service , 11 / 08 / 01
india : enron not to move on termination till friday
business line ( the hindu ) , 11 / 08 / 01
dabhol agrees to meet fis after a day - long drama
business standard , 11 / 08 / 01
dynegy holds talks to buy enron , inject $ 1 . 5 billion to shore up firm
dow jones business news , 11 / 07 / 01
dynegy reportedly close to deal to buy enron for $ 8 billion
associated press newswires , 11 / 07 / 01
usa : wrapup 2 - enron , dynegy in merger talks .
reuters english news service , 11 / 07 / 01
dynegy looking to acquire enron
thestreet . com 11 / 07 / 01
azurix corp . closes sale of azurix north america
pr newswire , 11 / 07 / 01
dynegy is in talks on purchasing enron - - - deal would include infusion of cash to assist firm in shoring up finances
by robin sidel and rebecca smith
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 08 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
dynegy inc . , the houston - based energy trading and power company , was attempting to strike a deal yesterday evening to buy enron corp . , its beleaguered hometown rival , for roughly $ 7 billion to $ 8 billion in stock , one - tenth of what enron was worth 15 months ago .
because any merger of the two would likely be scrutinized for many months and enron needs to shore up its beleaguered finances now , dynegy also is expected to inject an additional $ 1 . 5 billion into enron immediately , people familiar with the matter said . chevrontexaco corp . , which owns a 26 % stake in dynegy , is expected to provide dynegy with the funds for the cash infusion and is playing a significant role in the negotiations . chevrontexaco then will inject an additional $ 1 billion into the combined company once the deal is concluded so that its stake in dynegy isn ' t substantially reduced and so the combined company has a healthy balance sheet .
with enron in a weak bargaining position , dynegy , which is one - fifth enron ' s size , was hoping to clinch a deal which would have it paying little , if any , premium for enron . the boards of dynegy , chevron and enron were meeting yesterday to discuss a potential deal , but a seesawing enron stock price and the complexity of a transaction yet could derail a deal , people familiar with the matter warned . " this is far from over , " said one person familiar with the negotiations . several important points , including the exchange ratio , were still being worked out . dynegy expects to argue that enron shareholders will benefit from the upside of combining the two companies and that a transaction will add to dynegy ' s earnings because of potential synergies .
spokesmen from enron and dynegy declined to comment .
if approved by regulators , the deal would be a stunning development for enron , which transformed itself from a staid natural - gas - pipeline company into a highflying power - trading giant only to see its share price - - and hefty market valuation - - plummet in a matter of weeks . and for enron to sell itself for a low price is sure to stun investors .
under the terms being worked out last night , enron chairman kenneth lay would have a seat on the combined company ' s board , but wouldn ' t hold any formal management position , said the people familiar with the matter . mr . lay may take on a consulting role . meanwhile , chuck watson , chairman and chief executive of dynegy , would be ceo of the combined company , while his no . 2 , stephen bergstrom , will president .
enron has been scrambling for days to line up quick financing from a prominent outside investor and has been in discussions with private - equity firms and power - trading companies . the company desperately needs to win back its credibility on wall street following the disclosure that the securities and exchange commission was investigating the partnerships created to serve as a hedge against fluctuating market conditions . discussions between dynegy and enron began about 10 days ago , but intensified last weekend .
enron also is expected today to disclose more financial dealings about the partnerships . a person close to dynegy said the potential acquirer feels it understands enron ' s business and is apprised of the liabilities , which have been factored into the transaction .
should enron strike a deal , it hopes to stabilize its stock price . enron fell 6 . 4 % , or 62 cents , to $ 9 . 05 at 4 p . m . composite trading on the new york stock exchange . at one point yesterday morning , enron ' s stock had fallen 25 % on news reports that enron ' s efforts to line up investors had failed . the stock recovered after cnbc and dow jones newswires reported the talks with dynegy . the shares are at a new 52 - week low and far from the 52 - week high of $ 84 . 88 .
dynegy fell $ 3 , or 8 . 3 % , to $ 33 , at 4 p . m . in big board trading . however , some investors believed the company ' s share price could benefit from the deal .
jason selch , an energy analyst at wanger asset management in chicago , a large dynegy shareholder , said the company has a history of pulling off complicated deals and added that because enron is in such bad shape , dynegy could dictate the terms of the deal , shielding itself from potential losses due to shareholder lawsuits or problems with enron ' s complicated off - balance sheet dealings .
" if they make an offer , they will be making an offer in order to get a steal , " said mr . selch , who says enron ' s core energy - trading business is being valued at about half the normal market valuation of these operations . " i think they will be acquiring a business that will launch them into the no . 1 market - share position in energy trading , " mr . selch added .
whether a deal with dynegy materializes , the fact that enron is willing to consider a sale shows how its fortunes have sagged and underscores how desperate it is for a savior . the company , which was at the pinnacle of its success just a year earlier , boasted a market capitalization of $ 71 billion about a year ago and is now valued at about $ 7 billion .
in exchange for the immediate capital infusion , dynegy is expected to get convertible preferred stock . in that type of deal , an investor receives a safe , bondlike interest payment and then can convert that holding into common stock after the share price rises to a specified level . enron also had been soliciting interest from private equity firms , but any discussions with those parties were proceeding on a slower track .
people familiar with the negotiations said it was possible the financial players could still play some sort of role in any enron transaction , although details weren ' t immediately available . buyout firms clayton , dubilier & rice and blackstone group , which had been approached by enron to make an investment , decided against doing so , according to people familiar with the matter . indeed , enron ' s move to publicly disclose new information about the partnerships could provide intriguing details to any other potential bidders who are interested in a deal , but were reluctant to pursue enron without knowing more about those transactions . and because dynegy may only be paying a small premium , another suitor may be able to step up to the plate .
the deal , if agreed to , will add to dynegy ' s earnings in the first year . the new entity will focus on the core business of north american and european wholesale , commercial and industrial energy markets and will capitalize on the opportunities generated by the combined , diversified asset - backed network supported by the strongest intellectual capital in the industry .
aside from restoring confidence among its investors , enron has faced growing pressure from its trading partners . the company is offering special protections to some trading partners , hoping to prevent a mass exodus due to fears it could face further credit downgrades or wind up seeking the protection of a federal bankruptcy court .
the protection takes the form of a " netting agreement " that permits a trading partner to offset the sums it is owed by various enron entities against the amounts that it owes the enron concerns .
without such an arrangement , a company might owe money to one enron entity but have to stand in a long , slow line to collect sums owed by a different enron concern should the company seek bankruptcy - court protection . with netting , positions could cancel each other out , at least to some extent , and reduce a firm ' s ultimate credit exposure .
enron spokesman mark palmer said the company has plenty of cash and has no need or intention of seeking protection from creditors , with whom it is current .
- - -
jathon sapsford , robert frank and ken brown contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
dynegy is said to be near to acquiring enron for $ 8 billion
by richard a . oppel jr . and andrew ross sorkin
11 / 08 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
the board of dynegy inc . tentatively approved a deal last night to acquire the enron corporation , the once - mighty energy - trading company laid low by a financial crisis and government investigation , executives close to the transaction said .
a deal would enable dynegy to buy the much bigger enron at a fire - sale price - - about $ 8 billion in stock , or roughly $ 10 a share , for a company that less than a year ago had a market value of nearly $ 70 billion . but with stock and bond investors fleeing , some of its trading partners refusing to do business with it , enron had few choices but to talk to dynegy .
as part of the deal , chevron texaco , which owns a 27 percent stake in dynegy , would give enron a cash infusion of at least $ 1 . 5 billion up front and an additional $ 1 billion when the deal closed .
the executives said the companies hope to finalize the details and announce the deal today .
if completed , a takeover by dynegy , a company only about one - quarter its size in revenue , would represent a remarkable humbling of enron , the nation ' s biggest buyer and seller of natural gas and electricity . enron had $ 139 . 7 billion in revenue for the first nine months of the year .
as recently as last spring enron was lionized by investors as an innovator that had in many ways created and cleverly dominated the nation ' s deregulated energy markets . it would also vindicate not only dynegy , which took a more measured approach to doing business in those markets , but also critics uncomfortable with energy deregulation who said enron ' s energy trading was ruthless , its finances murky and its power and influence too extensive .
the company ' s chairman and chief executive , kenneth l . lay , is a close friend of president bush . he has been one of mr . bush ' s largest campaign contributors , and no other energy company gave more money to republican causes last year than enron . mr . lay would be on the board of the combined companies , the executives said , but it was unclear if he would have an operational role .
enron ' s problems came to light last month when the company disclosed $ 1 billion in write - downs and an unusual $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity . the reduction in equity arose from transactions with investment partnerships involving andrew fastow , the chief financial officer , who was forced to resign on oct . 24 . the securities and exchange commission is investigating those transactions .
enron is expected today to send the s . e . c . answers to questions the agency has posed in its investigation . the answers have been reviewed by dynegy officials , the executives said , and are expected to be released publicly .
enron is scheduled to meet its creditors tomorrow about the company ' s continuing crisis - - and about the merger deal , if there is one .
people close to the deal say the company hopes that a deal with dynegy , and the release of the answers to the s . e . c . , will calm the crisis that has engulfed the company and led other energy companies that trade with enron to curtail their credit exposure to the company .
besides worries about the huge losses and the s . e . c . investigation , investors and creditors are nervously watching enron ' s credit rating . moody ' s investors service and standard and poor ' s have already cut the rating to two notches above junk status , and on monday , fitch inc . cut it to one notch above junk .
as part of the acquisition , dynegy would be taking on enron ' s $ 12 . 8 billion debt load - - a number that does not include billions of dollars of other debt , accumulated off the balance sheet , that has played a major role in enron ' s current problems . the executives said they expected the deal would lead to the sale of some enron assets to pay down the $ 12 . 8 billion debt .
should enron lose its investment grade rating , other energy trading companies could curtail their business with the company even further , and enron could be forced to issue tens of millions of shares of stock to cover off - balance sheet debts that it has guaranteed .
early wednesday , shares of enron plunged 28 percent , to about $ 7 , on fears that the company was unable to line up new investors .
but the stock took back most of its losses in the afternoon after cnbc reported the talks with dynegy . shares of enron closed at $ 9 . 05 , off 62 cents . dynegy shares closed at $ 33 , down $ 3 .
in addition to both companies ' very large presence in energy trading , enron owns the portland general electric company , a utility in oregon it had already agreed to sell , and dynegy owns the illinova corporation , a retail electricity and natural gas utility in illinois .
regulators may take a hard look at those utilities in reviewing a merger deal , said jeff dietert , an analyst with simmons & company in houston . ' ' then you ' ve got concerns about market power , ' ' he said . ' ' it ' s just a lot of different issues to deal with before we get too excited that this deal is going to get done . ' '
the acquisition would combine enron , which dominates united states trading of electricity and natural gas and has been shedding its hard assets , with dynegy , a company that has pursued a much different strategy of using trading to maximize earnings from its power plants .
enron has always concentrated on sophisticated financial trading strategies , a senior executive at a rival energy - trading firm , said . ' ' dynegy has always been more of a logistical player of physical assets , ' ' he said . ' ' those are very different cultures and very different mentalities . ' ' the executive noted that there had been an immense talent drain from enron in the last two weeks . ' ' it has become a frenzy , ' ' he said .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
trading places : fancy finances were key to enron ' s success , and now to its distress - - - impenetrable deals have put firm in position where it may lose independence - - - talks with rival dynegy
by rebecca smith and john r . emshwiller
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 08 / 2001
the wall street journal
al
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
when enron corp . convened its annual conference with credit analysts and bond investors in houston last february , the energy - trading giant was soaring and looking to climb higher .
the company ' s stock was trading at about $ 80 a share , giving it a stock market value of $ 70 billion . though up fourfold from three years earlier , the stock price wasn ' t nearly high enough , enron ' s new chief executive , jeffrey skilling , told the audience . with its dominant position in energy - trading markets and its highly touted new moves into telecommunications , enron stock should be at $ 126 a share , mr . skilling argued .
all in all , a vintage performance for a company not known for being bashful . " a lot of hype . a lot of spin , " recalls todd shipman , a standard & poor ' s analyst who attended the conference . " that was enron . "
yesterday , enron stock closed at $ 9 . 05 in new york stock exchange trading . mr . skilling is no longer around to promote the stock . in august , he unexpectedly resigned as chief executive after only six months in the top job . chief financial officer andrew fastow was replaced last month as controversy escalated over his role in running private partnerships involved in billions of dollars of transactions with enron . kenneth lay , enron ' s chief executive , has had to give up retirement plans to return to the helm .
lately , the company has been offering special credit protection to increasingly nervous trading partners , including reliant energy inc . and entergy corp . the goal : to provide assurance that enron is a creditworthy partner and to prevent an exodus of customers . enron ' s trading operation generates 90 % of the company ' s profits .
it looked yesterday as if the endgame might be beginning . mr . lay and enron ' s board were discussing a possible acquisition of enron by its much - smaller hometown energy - trading rival , dynegy inc . , in a stock swap valued at $ 7 billion to $ 8 billion . ( see related article on page a 3 . )
any merger of the two companies would probably face lengthy regulatory scrutiny , so dynegy is also considering injecting $ 1 . 5 billion into enron immediately to help stabilize the company ' s finances , according to people familiar with the situation . the deal would also include a significant role for oil powerhouse chevrontexaco , which owns a 26 % stake in dynegy and would be likely to provide much of the cash for any enron transaction .
dynegy ' s emergence as a serious bidder for enron could indicate to other interested parties that enron ' s problems can be solved . in fact , the collapse in enron ' s stock price would make it fairly easy for another large energy player to top any dynegy offer . royal dutch / shell group is one such prominent company .
a takeover by dynegy or any other company would almost certainly presage the departure of the 59 - year - old mr . lay . he oversaw the transformation of enron from a nondescript natural - gas pipeline company with annual revenue of under $ 5 billion in the late 1980 s to a global energy colossus with revenue that is expected to approach $ 200 billion this year .
it has turned out that the formula behind that transformation contained the seeds for the company ' s current troubles . executives created an ever - more - labyrinthine financial structure to support enron ' s explosive growth rate . billions of dollars of debt - - which could have weakened enron ' s credit rating and slowed growth - - was kept off the balance sheet through tangled webs of transactions with dozens of related entities . as the financial demands became greater and the transactions more complex , enron officials began creating and heading some of the entities , raising serious conflict - of - interest questions .
neither enron nor dynegy would comment . royal dutch / shell also declined to comment . messrs . lay , skilling and fastow either declined to comment or didn ' t return phone calls seeking interviews .
enron officials have maintained that the markets are overreacting to a spate of bad , but nonfatal , news . on oct . 16 , the company announced a $ 618 million third - quarter loss and disclosed a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction of shareholder equity due in part to dealings with the fastow - related partnerships . the company has said that its ongoing businesses are strong and it has the financial wherewithal to weather the crisis . all of its actions have been legal and properly disclosed , enron has stressed .
still , its predicament is daunting . the securities and exchange commission has started a formal investigation into possible violations of federal securities law involving the fastow - related partnerships . several shareholder lawsuits seeking class - action status have been filed against top company officials , alleging fraud and seeking to recover some of the $ 20 billion in market value that enron shares have lost in the past month . to address growing jitters in the energy and financial markets , enron has drawn down billions of dollars of credit lines , negotiated new ones and sought a new equity infusion .
as turmoil has engulfed the company , mr . lay and other top enron executives have kept largely out of public view - - in sharp contrast to the company ' s normally outspoken public persona . the one recent public - relations initiative , a conference call for analysts and big investors , turned into what even enron officials concede privately was a debacle . it left company executives looking evasive and defensive rather than open and confident .
how did enron , which routinely made published lists of the most - admired and innovative companies in america , fly so high and fall so fast ? the answer lies in a combination of brilliance and overconfidence on a scale rarely seen in the business world .
in the process , the company helped redefine much of the energy marketplace on matters as fundamental as how power is bought and sold and how a company produces a profit from doing so . for example , the company helped create an electricity - trading market in which participants rarely take physical delivery of the commodity but instead merely tally profits or losses from transactions .
in the accounting realm , it pioneered techniques that allowed energy companies to record profits or losses on long - term contracts that hadn ' t yet produced any revenue . " we caught a little flak in the early 1990 s from people who , i guess , thought we were pulling a fast one , " enron ' s chief accounting officer , richard causey , said in an interview in august . he added that this accounting method was the most accurate way to measure energy - trading results .
enron ' s audacity and success sent other energy companies scrambling to emulate it , a process that abn amro analyst paul patterson calls " enron envy . "
the company tested the limits of securities and accounting rules . for example , enron ' s sec filings have included statements about the fastow - related transactions that might meet the letter of disclosure laws but are so complex that even some wall street analysts and accounting professors have found them indecipherable .
enron ' s seemingly impenetrable financial structure , hardly noticed by wall street in the company ' s heyday , is now a matter of serious concern in a suddenly skeptical investment community . " it ' s not easy to regain something as basic as trust , " says goldman sachs analyst david fleischer , a longtime enron fan . in the recent conference call with enron executives , mr . fleischer pleaded with the company to be more forthcoming about its operations - - something it has been promising to do for months .
while enron employs some 20 , 000 people , its rise and fall can , in large measure , be traced to three men : messrs . lay , skilling and fastow . mr . lay joined the company in 1984 when it was still called houston natural gas , a regional pipeline operator . back then , the natural - gas industry was a largely regional business and about as exciting as watching a pipeline operate .
but mr . lay had big plans for his company , always preaching that natural gas was the fuel of the future . his prediction has been largely borne out when it comes to such functions as fueling electric - power plants .
he wanted to take the company beyond natural gas . enron bought an electric utility in portland , ore . , and built power plants around the world . it developed its potent energy - trading operation , which buys and sells contracts to provide electricity in the same way that contracts for wheat and pork bellies are traded . these deals were done with utilities , industrial power users and other trading firms .
to help enlarge this empire , he recruited aggressive young executives . none was brighter or more assertive than mr . skilling , a harvard business school graduate and former mckinsey & co . consultant who joined enron in 1990 .
under messrs . lay and skilling , the company pushed zealously for the deregulation of energy markets - - particularly that bastion of monopoly businesses , the electric - utility industry . enron officials argued that open , competitive markets could help consumers and , not coincidentally , provide huge profit opportunities in energy trading .
mr . skilling called the energy - trading business " a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to establish a position to last for the next 100 years . " by the late 1990 s , enron had evolved into primarily a trading company , rather than an owner of power plants and pipelines .
in pursuit of their deregulation goals , enron officials became major players in american politics . mr . lay has given nearly $ 2 million to president bush during his political career and is a personal friend of the president , vice president cheney and several members of the cabinet .
one of mr . skilling ' s early hires after joining enron was mr . fastow , at the time a 29 - year - old mba from northwestern ' s kellogg school who had been working on leveraged buyouts and other complicated deals at continental bank in chicago . former enron officials and others say that mr . skilling quickly became mr . fastow ' s mentor in the same way that mr . lay had become mr . skilling ' s .
as mr . skilling oversaw the building of enron ' s vast trading operation , mr . fastow saw to the financing of it . " andy was the guy you saw when you wanted money " for a project , says one former enron senior manager .
mr . skilling was named enron ' s chief operating officer in 1997 . mr . fastow got the top finance job a year later , at the age of 36 . under mr . fastow , enron ' s finance department tripled in size , to more than 100 people .
enron needed the added financial brainpower . as it expanded , debt and liquidity were constant concerns . what ' s more , the company ' s ambitions were roving beyond therms and kilowatts as it began to make markets in everything from water to weather .
enron ' s most highly touted non - energy initiative , and mr . skilling ' s pet project , came in the area of telecommunications . the company built a coast - to - coast fiber - optic network and envisioned trading " bandwidth , " or network capacity , the way it traded electricity or natural gas . enron has invested several hundred million dollars so far in the project , which has produced losses of over $ 400 million . yet at the february analyst meeting in houston , mr . skilling unabashedly valued enron ' s fiber - optic business at $ 36 billion , according to people who were at the meeting .
but to make all of its growth dreams possible , enron had to make sure that its balance sheet didn ' t become too laden with debt . too much debt would lead major ratings agencies , such as moody ' s investors service and standard & poor ' s , to lower enron ' s credit rating . such downgrades could significantly increase the company ' s cost of borrowing and make it more difficult to finance its continued expansion .
in typically aggressive fashion , enron lobbied the ratings agencies with the same vigor that it lobbied legislators . at the february meeting , mr . fastow urged analysts to raise enron ' s credit rating on long - term debt from triple - b - plus to single - a - minus . but the analysts shrugged off mr . fastow ' s entreaties . they didn ' t see the cash flow , earnings , or debt coverage required for such an upgrade , says one attendee .
undeterred , mr . fastow said the higher rating would strengthen the company ' s basic finances , which could then justify the higher rating . this circular argument provoked derision among analysts , and enron didn ' t get its ` a ' rating . instead , the company was recently downgraded by the major ratings agencies as a result of its financial turmoil .
in moves that kept down its reported debt burden , enron turned increasingly to off - balance - sheet transactions through limited partnerships with outside parties . in such an arrangement , enron could contribute money , stock or other assets to the partnership . the partnership could then borrow large sums to purchase assets or do business deals without the debt showing up on enron ' s books .
while such partnership transactions had long been used in the natural - gas industry to finance deals , enron took the practice to new heights of complexity . leading that effort was mr . fastow and his team of young financial experts .
in recent years , enron has done myriad deals with more than 30 partnerships . by far the most controversial to come to light , so far , are the ones it has done with two partnerships - - known as ljm cayman lp and ljm 2 co - investment lp - - which were formed and operated by mr . fastow . the company has said that its transactions with these partnerships were designed to hedge against fluctuating market values of company assets and energy contracts .
it isn ' t clear why enron would allow its chief financial officer to be in a fiduciary position at partnerships that stood to profit , possibly at the company ' s expense , from doing deals with it . to make matters worse , private ljm partnership documents indicate that mr . fastow personally made millions of dollars from the partnerships - - much more than he was being paid as enron ' s chief financial officer .
enron officials have repeatedly said that mr . fastow ' s actions were reviewed and approved by top management and the board of directors . however , the company has refused to answer numerous specific questions about its dealings with the partnerships . enron has said that mr . fastow formally severed his ties with the partnerships in july in the face of rising discomfort about the arrangements on the part of analysts and major company investors .
it is nearly impossible to stitch together anything comprehensible about the partnership deals from enron ' s sec filings . the only thing clear is that millions of shares of enron stock and billions of dollars of assets and notes were involved in the transactions .
- - -
robin sidel and jathon sapsford contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
unit of enron is challenged
11 / 08 / 2001
the new york times
page 12 , column 6
c . 2001 new york times company
a consortium of indian lenders to the enron corporation ' s power company in india asked the bombay high court today to prevent the unit , the dabhol power company , from pulling ou