Subject: enron mentions
enron slashes profits since 1997 by 20 % - - - partnership dealings cited as dynegy talks go on ; debt ratings an issue
the wall street journal , 11 / 09 / 01
does enron trust its new numbers ? it doesn ' t act like it
the new york times , 11 / 09 / 01
surest steps , not the swiftest , are propelling dynegy past enron
the new york times , 11 / 09 / 01
enron admits to overstating profits by about $ 600 million
the new york times , 11 / 09 / 01
dynegy halts talks with enron , awaits credit rating ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 09 / 01
enron adds up 4 years of errors
houston chronicle , 11 / 09 / 01
enron , dynegy still talking merger
houston chronicle , 11 / 09 / 01
a new energy crisis : if master market maker enron goes down , this winter could be a truly chilling experience for north americans . ( enron corp . in danger of defaulting ) ( brief article )
maclean ' s , 11 / 12 / 01
enron in crisis - restated figures show how earnings were cut .
financial times , 11 / 09 / 01
the five dumbest things on wall street this week
thestreet . com , 11 / 09 / 01
global investing - shareholder - friendly companies outperform study finds giving more power to investors . . .
financial times , 11 / 09 / 01
global investing - putting a value on a group under siege .
financial times , 11 / 09 / 01
enron in crisis - lure of number - one spot sparks interest .
financial times , 11 / 09 / 01
enron in crisis - rivals steady the enron ship .
financial times , 11 / 09 / 2001
front page - companies troubled energy firm fires 2 more officials
the washington post , 11 / 09 / 01
enron restatements don ' t go far enough
thestreet . com , 11 / 09 / 01
world stock markets - wall st surges as europe takes lead from fed americas .
financial times , 11 / 09 / 01
enron reissues financial reports energy : the company restates four years to clear questions related to a series of controversial partnerships .
los angeles times , 11 / 09 / 01
small - stock focus : visible genetics , net 2 phone slide as finance stocks aid russell 2000
the wall street journal , 11 / 09 / 01
enron may have to sell uk assets
the guardian , 11 / 09 / 01
enron restates earnings as company confirms merger talks
associated press newswires , 11 / 09 / 01
beware the company that does not tell all
the globe and mail , 11 / 09 / 01
city - enron crisis deepens as two top staff are fired .
the daily telegraph , 11 / 09 / 01
dabhol pwr mtg focus on tata , bses to acquire enron stake
dow jones energy service , 11 / 09 / 01
enron meets indian lenders on power plant stake sale ( update 3 )
bloomberg , 11 / 09 / 01
dhabol power confirms enron in talks with bses , tata power
dow jones energy service , 11 / 09 / 01
officials try to salvage multibillion dollar enron india project
associated press newswires , 11 / 09 / 01
india : enron reverses stand , attends singapore meet
business line ( the hindu ) , 11 / 09 / 01
canadian pwr , gas mkts benefiting from enron ' s woes
dow jones energy service , 11 / 08 / 01
uncertainties cloud view of an enron - dynegy combination
dow jones energy service , 11 / 08 / 01
enron earnings drop
cnnfn : business unusual , 11 / 08 / 01
enron shareholder derivative suit filed
pr newswire , 11 / 08 / 01
enron curtails activity in us power , gas mkt thu - traders
dow jones energy service , 11 / 08 / 01
in the money : enron debacle could push accounting changes
dow jones news service , 11 / 08 / 01
enron slashes profits since 1997 by 20 % - - - partnership dealings cited as dynegy talks go on ; debt ratings an issue
by wall street journal staff reporters john r . emshwiller and rebecca smith in los angeles and robin sidel and jonathan weil in new york
11 / 09 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . reduced its previously reported net income dating back to 1997 by $ 586 million , or 20 % , mostly due to improperly accounting for its dealings with partnerships run by some company officers .
the disclosure , contained in a securities and exchange commission filing , came even as the houston energy - trading company continued its merger talks with rival dynegy inc . dynegy , an independent power producer and utility owner , is looking at acquiring enron for roughly $ 7 billion to $ 8 billion , people familiar with the talks say . however , those talks could also be influenced by whether enron is further downgraded by major credit - ratings agencies .
the total price being discussed would equate to about $ 10 an enron share , barely above where the stock is currently trading and far below the level of even two weeks ago . as of 4 p . m . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , enron shares were down 7 . 1 % , or 64 cents , to $ 8 . 41 , a tenth of their 52 - week high of $ 84 . 875 .
on the big board , dynegy traded at $ 36 . 50 , up $ 3 . 50 . shares of several energy - trading companies were up yesterday following a directive from federal regulators that the california state government pay an estimated $ 1 . 6 billion for past power purchases .
in yesterday ' s sec filing , enron also made major adjustments in its reported assets , debt and shareholder equity back to 1997 . for instance , for the three - month period ended sept . 30 , enron lopped about $ 2 . 2 billion , or 19 % , off shareholder equity , reducing it to a total of $ 9 . 5 billion . previously , the company had disclosed a reduction of only $ 1 . 2 billion .
the filing also said that enron discharged ben glisan , the company treasurer , and kristina mordaunt , the general counsel of enron ' s north america unit , in connection with investments they made in one of the officer - run limited partnerships . until yesterday , enron had insisted that mr . glisan wasn ' t associated with the officer - run partnerships . the company wouldn ' t explain why the the two had been discharged , and mr . glisan and ms . mordaunt couldn ' t be reached to comment .
the sec filing is the latest chapter in a crisis that has engulfed the nation ' s biggest energy - trading company during the past month . during that time , enron has reported a big third - quarter loss , the replacement of its chief financial officer who ran two of the controversial partnerships , and an sec investigation .
the sec filing raises further questions about enron ' s accounting procedures and disclosure policies . concerns over these matters are vexing investors and analysts , including those at major credit - rating agencies . the agencies downgraded enron debt during recent weeks and have the company on review for further downgrades .
ralph pellecchia , credit analyst for fitch , said he couldn ' t predict what effect the sec filing would have on enron ' s credit rating , but he added that the document contained damaging disclosures . " it ' s bad , " he said .
the enron sec filing also raises questions about the conduct of its outside auditor , arthur andersen llp , which reviewed the company ' s annual financial statements and certified them as consistent with accepted accounting principals . because of all the accounting adjustments " the audit reports covering the year - end financial statements for 1997 - 2000 should not be relied upon , " yesterday ' s sec filing said .
an andersen spokesman called enron ' s restatement announcement " an unfortunate situation " but said the accounting firm is " cooperating with the company . . . to bring resolution to these matters . " he said he couldn ' t comment further because of client - confidentiality concerns .
among the accounting turnabouts , enron said it had improperly accounted for two partnerships connected to michael
kopper , a former managing director of the company ' s north america unit . the two partnerships were known as joint energy development investments lp , or jedi , and chewco investments lp .
as reported , mr . kopper managed the general partner of chewco , which was formed in 1997 . jedi had been formed in 1993 by enron in partnership with the huge california public employees ' retirement system , or calpers .
in 1997 enron , which operated jedi , bought out calpers ' interest for $ 383 million and immediately sold it to chewco , according to the sec filing . almost all the money for chewco ' s purchase came in loans from jedi and an unnamed financial institution , whose loan was guaranteed by enron .
by having a supposed outside party in the form of chewco as a partner , enron treated jedi as an unconsolidated affiliate and kept hundreds of millions of dollars of partnership debt off its balance sheet . enron now acknowledges that treatment was wrong and that both jedi and chewco should have been consolidated starting in 1997 . taking that step retroactively resulted in a $ 396 million reduction in net income for the years 1997 to 2000 , the sec filing said .
mr . kopper , who left enron in july to run the partnerships , didn ' t return a phone call seeking comment . in the past , he has declined to be interviewed .
enron also retroactively consolidated some of the results of its dealings with a partnership called ljm cayman lp . that consolidation reduced 1999 and 2000 net income by $ 103 million .
ljm and a similar but much larger partnership , called ljm 2 co - investment lp , were formed in 1999 by enron ' s then - chief financial officer andrew fastow , who was replaced last month . the two partnerships were run by mr . fastow and mr . kopper , according to the enron sec filing and private partnership documents . enron ' s sec filing said the company believes that mr . fastow sold his interests in the ljm partnerships in july to mr . kopper . mr . fastow has declined to be interviewed .
several analysts said they were troubled that none of the earnings restatements were directly attributed to the much larger ljm 2 partnership . some also pointed to a sentence in the sec filing that said " it is possible " that continuing enron reviews will " identify additional or different information concerning these matters . "
as such , " there remains doubt about whether there is something else in the closet , " said brian youngberg , energy analyst at edward jones in st . louis .
the enron sec filing gave new information about the effect on company earnings of transactions related to the ljm partnerships . since 1999 , those transactions produced $ 577 . 8 million in pretax earnings , despite a $ 711 million pretax charge in this year ' s third quarter due to the termination of deals with several ljm 2 - related entities . the filing also estimated that mr . fastow received more than $ 30 million from the ljm partnerships .
- - - mea culpa
in the midst of talks to be acquired by dynegy , enron details
accounting and other actions .
- - will restate its financial results from 1997 through the third
quarter of 2001 , reducing previously reported income by $ 586 million
and boosting previously reported debt to $ 628 million at the end of
2000
- - concedes three entities run by company officials should have been
included in its consolidated financial statements , based on generally
accepted accounting principles
- - fires ben glisan , managing director and treasurer , and kristina
mordaunt , managing director and general counsel of an enron division
- - establishes a special committee to review all transactions
source : the company
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
does enron trust its new numbers ? it doesn ' t act like it
by floyd norris
11 / 09 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
you ' d be better informed if , instead of listening to what we say , you watch what we do . ' '
that excellent advice was not issued by enron management , although it should have been . instead it came more than 30 years ago from john n . mitchell , president richard m . nixon ' s attorney general .
enron ' s restatement of earnings yesterday did not go far enough to allow investors to understand all of what went on during the company ' s many strange transactions with related parties . it is now consolidating the results of some of its off - balance - sheet creations , though what happened in the most important ones remains a mystery .
but the restatement should , at the least , cause investors and wall street analysts to realize they have been fooled by so - called pro forma earnings , which leave out unpleasant realities and ignore accounting rules .
in january , enron told investors its ' ' recurring net income , ' ' as it calls its pro forma number , would be $ 1 . 70 to $ 1 . 75 a share this year . the company ' s share price rose to $ 82 when that forecast was made .
remarkably , enron is still on course to hit that target . yesterday ' s restatement raised its nine - month earnings figure by a penny , to $ 1 . 36 . and yet enron appears to be willing to sell out for about $ 10 a share , or less than six times its reported profits , which still appear to be growing . why so little ?
the answer may be that enron ' s board knows those numbers are not reliable measures of performance . enron ' s failure to disclose more about the still unconsolidated subsidiaries is an indication that the unreleased facts would not be reassuring . and enron cannot stay in business unless customers and investors believe it is financially solid . so it is willing to sell out for a fraction of what it appeared to be worth only weeks ago . don ' t call it a takeover . takeunder would be a better term .
what set off enron ' s collapse ? it now appears to have been a mistake . enron says it added $ 1 billion to shareholder equity in 2000 and early this year in error . the mistake did nothing to improve enron ' s profits at the time , so it seems unlikely it was deliberate . had the mistake not been made , the reduction in shareholder equity it disclosed last month would have been $ 200 million , not $ 1 . 2 billion . that reduction scared investors into believing that enron ' s transactions with partnerships led by andrew fastow , its former chief financial officer , had been disastrous for the company . now it appears they may not have been so bad .
but that fact is not very important now . enron ' s new disclosures indicate that perhaps 40 percent of its reported profits in 2000 came from dealings with the fastow partnerships . such profits may be legal under accounting rules , but there are good reasons to doubt how real they are .
in fact , the accounting rule makers are even now pondering a question that may be important to enron . the body charged with dealing with new accounting issues got a rush question on oct . 23 - - the day before enron ousted mr . fastow - - about the accounting on transactions at a hypothetical ' ' big energy corporation ' ' where one subsidiary , a natural gas pipeline company , trades with another subsidiary , an energy trading entity . the question posed was whether a company can report profits made by one subsidiary while ignoring the losses of the other one . that company may or may not be enron .
such games will not work anymore , at least for enron . it needs to be acquired because its customers are not willing to believe even its revised numbers .
graph shows enron share prices since oct . 15 .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
surest steps , not the swiftest , are propelling dynegy past enron
by neela banerjee
11 / 09 / 2001
the new york times
page 5 , column 1
c . 2001 new york times company
the tortoise appears ready to overtake the hare .
until they confirmed yesterday that they were in merger talks , the enron corporation and dynegy inc . were rivals within the new , rapidly evolving deregulated power industry . each embodied a sharply different approach to making money , attracting investors and winning over regulators .
enron thrived on risk , hurling itself into projects and businesses largely untested by others , earning along the way a reputation for innovation and the acclaim of the investors and analysts who now so angrily shun it because of its murky accounting .
dynegy is the slower , more cautious company , the younger sibling that carefully gleaned lessons from the example set by a brasher enron . dynegy ' s steady progress has now made it strong and solvent enough to contemplate a multibillion - dollar takeover of its erstwhile competitor .
as one senior energy industry executive said , ' ' enron ' s trying to hit more triples and home runs , while dynegy tries for singles and doubles . ' '
kenneth lay , the enron chairman and chief executive who built an empire from two troubled gas pipeline companies - - and whose influential friends include president bush - - is the one who points to the bleachers . dynegy ' s chairman and chief executive , charles l . watson , is less well known but is well respected among stock analysts . he also started small , nurturing his energy trading and generating company - - which had $ 33 billion in revenue for the nine months ended sept . 30 - - from a natural gas trading concern he began in the mid - 80 ' s .
when electricity markets around the united states were deregulated , the companies followed clearly divergent paths . utilities no longer necessarily generated power , and they and their larger industrial clients looked for good deals on the power being sold on the new wholesale markets for electricity . enron and dynegy traded and marketed energy . yet enron sold most of the power plants it owned and focused mainly on financial transactions rather than the actual physical delivery of power , a strategy that made the company a lot of money very fast .
dynegy bought power plants instead and focused on being a reliable supplier of energy . it cashed in , too , on deregulation , but not as enron had . it stuck to its core energy business as its archrival branched into overseas operations , retail power marketing , a water business and a broadband venture , most of which have gone badly awry .
mr . watson said in an interview earlier this year that a string of power plant acquisitions had kept his company diversified and balanced . ' ' we need a little bit everywhere , ' ' he said . ' ' enron is a financial player , but dynegy is more of a physical player . ' '
if enron ' s finances grew more confusing , dynegy seemed to offer clarity . if enron promised a lot , analysts said , dynegy played up its accomplishments . enron lobbied regulators and politicians very publicly , while dynegy kept things quiet and discreet .
' ' chuck watson is a pretty straight - talking guy , ' ' said christopher r . ellinghaus , a williams capital group analyst .
because enron had such extravagant earnings promises to fulfill , some analysts said , it may have been tempted to hide its problems and losses with creative accounting . while dynegy avoided such a path , no one really expects mr . watson to gloat about his company ' s new , larger stature . enron may have been less a hare than a canary in the deregulation coal mine , and it is unclear who will take on that role now .
' ' dynegy had what could be called a second - mover advantage , ' ' said andre meade , head of commerzbank securities ' united states utility research . ' ' it seemed to be content to watch its larger rival up the street in houston , enron , go into a market . and if it was successful , dynegy then could go in with less money and make it work . ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
enron admits to overstating profits by about $ 600 million
by richard a . oppel jr . and andrew ross sorkin
11 / 09 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
the enron corporation yesterday sliced more than half a billion dollars from its reported profits over the last five years , but its crosstown rival , dynegy inc . , still appeared to be willing to acquire enron , executives close to the merger talks said .
worries about how bond rating agencies would react to the merger delayed announcement of the deal , the executives said . but the failure to announce a deal - - as well as the profit restatement - - caused enron ' s share price to fall . and volume in its core north american natural gas and electricity trading operation plunged 20 percent as other energy - trading companies , unnerved by enron ' s financial distress , steered business elsewhere .
the boards of the two companies tentatively agreed late wednesday night to a deal in which dynegy would acquire enron for about $ 8 billion in stock , or roughly $ 10 a share .
the deal would include an initial $ 1 . 5 billion cash infusion from chevrontexaco , which owns 27 percent of dynegy , and later an additional infusion of $ 1 billion .
the sticking point to proceeding with the deal , according to the executives , is whether enron ' s credit rating will be reduced to ' ' junk ' ' status by the major credit rating agencies in reaction to enron ' s disclosures and its plan to be acquired by dynegy .
dynegy and enron have provided pro forma statements of what a combined dynegy - enron would look like and asked standard & poor ' s and moody ' s investors service for an ' ' expedited review ' ' of the transaction .
dynegy and chevrontexaco are also privately considering whether to offer a bigger cash infusion to buoy enron ' s credit rating - - now just two notches from falling below investment grade - - if the agencies look askance at the current deal . the companies are hoping for a response within the next day or two , the executives said .
the executives also said dynegy was seeking further protections that would allow it to back out of the deal if new , adverse disclosures surfaced .
shares of dynegy rose sharply yesterday , although it was not clear whether buyers believed that the company - - one - quarter the size of enron , in terms of revenues - - was getting a bargain or that enron ' s latest disclosures would lead to the deal ' s being abandoned . dynegy rose $ 3 . 50 , or 10 . 6 percent , to $ 36 . 50 , gaining back all of the ground lost on wednesday after news of the deal leaked . enron shares fell 64 cents , or 7 . 1 percent , to $ 8 . 41 . less than a year ago , enron traded for more than $ 84 a share , and the company was valued at nearly $ 70 billion .
in a sweeping restatement of its profits , enron said that its actual net income for the years 1997 to 2000 was $ 591 million less than it had reported on its financial statements . in a filing with the s . e . c . , enron also indicated that part of last year ' s reported profits came from transactions with partnerships controlled by andrew s . fastow , who was the company ' s chief financial officer until he was ousted oct . 24 .
enron said the transactions involving mr . fastow , which are part of the s . e . c . investigation , earned the former executive more than $ 30 million . the company also said it had fired its treasurer and the general counsel of one of its divisions , who both had invested in one of the partnerships .
any deal would also face long and complex reviews by federal and state energy regulators , who would have to sort out a range of competitive issues in the still - young business of wholesale natural gas and electricity trading . among the agencies involved would be the federal energy regulatory commission , the federal trade commission and the justice department .
some analysts expressed hope that enron ' s financial straits would encourage regulators to clear any deal , to relieve government officials of the prospect of dealing with the potential collapse of the nation ' s dominant energy - trading company . enron handles about a quarter of all power trading , and higher proportions in some important regional markets .
' ' if not for the dire condition of enron today , we are not certain an enron - dynegy merger would be possible due to antitrust concerns , ' ' said christopher r . ellinghaus , an analyst at williams capital . ' ' however , the effective industry bailout that the merger would represent would probably lead to some leniency from the f . t . c . , and would probably be looked at with some relief by the f . e . r . c . ' '
it was clear yesterday there would be opposition to the deal . ' ' if dynegy and enron were to get together , obviously the thing that would appeal to dynegy would be to combine the trading function of the two entities , and that in itself would provide greater market power , not less market power , ' ' said raymond plank , chairman of the apache corporation , one of the largest independent natural gas producers , based in houston .
mr . plank said he hoped regulators would take a critical look at any deal . ' ' the thing they should take a look at is the concentration of market power that has led to excessive volatility , and as a result , once again is threatening north american gas producers . ' '
enron ' s restated profits almost wiped out its net income in 1997 , and reduced it for every year since . but the changes actually raised its reported profits so far this year by $ 5 million .
the changes came largely from including results of two special purpose partnerships that it had treated as being independent - - companies called jedi and chewco , after characters in the ' ' star wars ' ' movies - - and of including a subsidiary of a partnership called ljml . that partnership , and another called ljm 2 , were run by mr . fastow .
the remainder of the earnings reductions , totaling $ 92 million from 1997 through 2000 , came from what enron called ' ' prior year proposed audit adjustments and reclassifications , ' ' which appear to have been changes previously recommended by arthur andersen , enron ' s auditors , but not made because the auditors were persuaded the amounts were immaterial . details of those charges were not disclosed , and enron said it might further alter its reporting as a special board committee continues its investigation of the partnership transactions .
' ' this is an unfortunate situation , ' ' said david tabolt , a spokesman for arthur andersen , which audited enron ' s books in all the years in question . ' ' issues have surfaced that have caused the company to restate its financial statements and advise investors that they should not rely on enron ' s financial statements or our audit reports . we are cooperating with the company and its special committee to bring resolution to these matters . ' '
while the restated financial statements consolidated the results of two partnerships and the ljml subsidiary , they did not fold the entire ljml partnership or the ljm 2 partnership into enron ' s financials . it is not clear how those partnerships performed . nor did they include some other related entities whose enron - guaranteed debts have aroused concern among investors .
mr . fastow , enron ' s former chief financial officer , could not be reached for comment , his lawyer said .
enron ' s downward cascade began after it reported third - quarter earnings on oct . 16 . its share price rose 67 cents , to $ 33 . 84 , that day , as the company said its ' ' recurring net income ' ' had met analyst expectations , even though write - offs led to a net loss .
in a conference call that day , kenneth l . lay , enron ' s chairman , mentioned that the company had written down shareholder equity by $ 1 . 2 billion as it closed out its relationships with the ljm partnerships . in the following days , that figure became widely discussed as some investors concluded that the company had suffered a large loss that it was able to avoid reporting on the earnings statement .
but enron said yesterday that reduction should have been only $ 200 million , with the remaining $ 1 billion reduction simply reversing prior errors made in 2000 and early this year .
enron said it had set up procedures to monitor transactions with the ljm partnerships and assure they were proper . ' ' whether these controls were properly implemented ' ' is being investigated by the special board committee , the company said . that committee has retained william mclucas , a former director of enforcement for the s . e . c . , as well as accountants from deloitte kristina mordaunt , the general counsel of an enron division ; and kathy lynn , vice president of an enron division . the company said ms . lynn no longer worked for enron and that the company was ' ' terminating the employment ' ' of the other two .
some industry officials said yesterday that a deal with dynegy was increasingly looking like a do - or - die prospect for enron , as other energy - trading companies began to back away from the company and take their business to other trading companies . while enron has a large network of natural gas pipelines and other profitable assets , by far its most valuable franchise is its energy - trading business in north america , which acts as an intermediary in more gas and electricity trades than any other company .
yesterday , volume in that business dropped 20 percent . an enron spokesman said company traders attributed the drop to concerns about the s . e . c . investigation and the outcome of the merger talks with dynegy .
enron also canceled a planned meeting with its creditors today in houston , executives said . the agenda for the meeting had been an extension of its $ 3 billion credit lines , but the merger talks superseded that discussion .
photo : dynegy ' s chief executive , charles l . watson , is respected among stock analysts . ( associated press )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
dynegy halts talks with enron , awaits credit rating ( updatel )
2001 - 11 - 09 06 : 48 ( new york )
dynegy halts talks with enron , awaits credit rating ( updatel )
( adds european share trading in fourth paragraph . )
houston , nov . 9 ( bloomberg ) - - dynegy inc . ' s plan to buy
rival energy trader enron corp . has stalled pending a credit
review by moody ' s investors service , people familiar with the
talks said . dynegy will probably walk away if enron receives a
` ` junk ' ' credit rating , the people said .
the proposed takeover , for about $ 8 billion in stock , hit a
snag because of the threat of a downgrade that would trigger a
cash crisis by forcing enron to repay $ 3 . 3 billion of bonds early .
moody ' s and standard & poor ' s are considering lowering their
ratings , which are two levels above junk .
a rating below investment - grade would make it ` ` difficult if
not impossible to raise new debt and would severely hamper their
ability to trade , ' ' jefferies analysts see it poised to profit
by laura goldberg
copyright 2001 houston chronicle
merger discussions between dynegy and enron corp . continued thursday as wall street had a mixed reaction to a possible combination of the two houston energy traders .
investors traded up dynegy ' s shares , while several stock analysts raised questions .
sources told the chronicle wednesday that the two companies were in advanced talks for the smaller dynegy to buy out its troubled rival . a stock deal likely to be worth $ 7 billion to $ 8 billion was being discussed .
in addition , chevrontexaco corp . , which owns about 27 percent of dynegy , could give enron an immediate infusion of $ 1 . 5 billion to help stabilize its finances and keep its core trading business running smoothly .
dynegy , the people said , was offering a modest premium over enron ' s stock price , but enron had been pressing for a higher offer .
shares in enron closed at $ 9 . 67 tuesday , $ 9 . 05 wednesday and $ 8 . 41 thursday .
each company issued a statement thursday saying the two were in discussions about " a possible business combination . " neither plans additional comments until a deal is struck or the talks fail .
the statements came as enron said it is restating its finances as far back as 1997 to include losses related to a number of complex partnerships it created , including several being investigated by federal securities regulators .
enron has been under heavy fire since oct . 16 , when it released third - quarter earnings that included losses related to two investment partnerships formerly run by its since - replaced chief financial officer .
carol coale , an analyst with prudential securities in houston , is to meet with top dynegy executives today .
she has a number of questions about a possible merger , including why dynegy wants to buy enron when its best resource , its people , could cross the street and turn in r ? sum ? s .
she also wonders why ken lay , enron ' s chairman and chief executive , 