Subject: merger news articles
a full list of news articles will be distributed on monday , but here is some of the initial coverage .
business / financial desk ; section a
rival to buy enron , top energy trader , after financial fall
by alex berenson and andrew ross sorkin
11 / 10 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
with its stock plunging and its finances in doubt , the world ' s largest energy trader , the enron corporation , agreed to be acquired yesterday by the rival dynegy inc . for about $ 9 billion in stock and the assumption of $ 13 billion in debt .
the deal is an extraordinary turnabout for enron , a houston - based company that had been a driving force behind electricity deregulation nationwide .
its chairman , kenneth l . lay , a big contributor to the republican party , provided political influence , while its former chief executive , jeffrey k . skilling , helped create markets for the trading of electricity and natural gas . but last winter , when california ' s effort to deregulate the electricity market led to soaring power prices and rolling blackouts , enron was the subject of much criticism and political anger .
recent disclosures of discrepancies in enron ' s financial statements and an investigation by the securities and exchange commission caused the shares to plunge this week to their lowest level in a decade . as other companies became wary of doing business with it , enron - - also facing a potential cash squeeze - - apparently had little choice but to find a buyer , and a deal was hastily cobbled together this week .
for critics who had complained about enron ' s market power and its dominance , the combination poses additional concerns . dynegy ' s acquisition of enron will be reviewed by state and federal agencies , led by the justice department and the federal energy regulatory commission . analysts said today that they expected scrutiny of the combined companies ' holdings in california , where dynegy owns power - generating plants and enron accounts for much of the trading of natural gas - - fuel for the state ' s electric power plants .
buying enron at a deep discount - - it has lost $ 60 billion in market value this year - - could make dynegy the dominant trader of electricity and natural gas . but the agreement carries big risks as well . along with enron ' s gas pipelines and high - technology trading floor , dynegy will take on enron ' s substantial debt and a web of complex transactions that enron has spun over the last decade .
in addition to the $ 13 billion in debt that enron carries on its books , it has guaranteed at least $ 4 billion in off - balance sheet loans , and the hidden debt could total as much as $ 10 billion , said carol coale , a stock analyst with prudential securities .
charles l . watson , dynegy ' s chairman and chief executive , said yesterday that dynegy could sort through enron ' s tangled finances . ' ' we know the company well , ' ' mr . watson said . ' ' it ' s not like we just started fresh . i ' m confident that it ' s as solid as we thought it was . ' '
the new company will combine enron ' s 25 , 000 - mile natural gas pipeline system with the large number of power plants that dynegy owns worldwide , as well as illinois power , a dynegy subsidiary that serves 650 , 000 customers in illinois . but its most important asset will be its trading desk . it will be the largest energy trader in the nation , trading more than twice as much power and natural gas as its closest competitors .
mr . watson said the company did not expect to sell significant properties and that the deal should pass regulatory scrutiny . ' ' there ' s really not a lot of overlap in assets , ' ' he said .
mr . watson and steve bergstrom , dynegy ' s president , will hold those positions in the new company , which will be called dynegy and remain in houston . mr . lay , who created enron in the mid - 1980 ' s , will not have any role in the combined company ' s daily operations . he has been asked to join its board but has not provided an answer . ' ' the last three weeks haven ' t been a lot of fun , ' ' he said .
in a statement announcing the agreement yesterday afternoon , mr . watson said he was confident that the merger would produce a strong new company . ' ' enron is the ideal strategic partner for dynegy , ' ' mr . watson said . ' ' we will keep a strong balance sheet and straightforward financial structure as key priorities . ' '
to shore up enron ' s finances , dynegy will immediately put $ 1 . 5 billion into enron through chevrontexaco , the giant oil company , which already owns 27 percent of dynegy . another billion dollars will be injected once the deal is completed .
investors appeared comfortable yesterday that dynegy could make the deal work . after falling $ 3 , to $ 33 , on wednesday , when the companies first said they were in discussions , dynegy rose $ 5 . 76 on thursday and yesterday to close the week at $ 38 . 76 .
' ' on paper , it works , ' ' ms . coale of prudential said . ' ' the combined company would be the leading trader , the market leader in most of their businesses . ' ' ms . coale , who has a sell rating on enron and a buy rating on dynegy , said she planned to keep her buy rating on dynegy .
as it works to have the deal approved , dynegy will have to persuade enron ' s traders to stay with the combined company . the pain of the stock ' s 90 percent plunge this year will not be equally shared . some enron employees have held onto their shares and seen their retirement accounts eviscerated . meanwhile , mr . lay , mr . skilling and other former and current executives sold hundreds of millions of dollars in enron stock in 2000 and this year .
the companies also have very different corporate cultures . dynegy emphasizes teamwork , while enron is more competitive , said ehud ronn , director of the center for energy finance education and research at the university of texas . even before the merger was announced , enron had lost some of its employees to other energy trading companies , mr . ronn said .
some investors and analysts say that the problems with enron ' s finances may extend beyond the partnerships that have been the subject of wall street ' s scrutiny the last month . james chanos , a short - seller who has been one of enron ' s most vocal critics , said there was increasing evidence that enron ' s energy trading operations were not as profitable as the company had said . ' ' there appears to be a culture at enron of aggressively booking profits and deferring or obscuring losses , ' ' mr . chanos said .
on thursday , enron said in a filing with the s . e . c that it had overstated its earnings by almost $ 600 million over the last five years . mr . chanos said more restatements were possible , noting that the filing disclosed partnerships had been used to hedge almost $ 1 billion in losses in 2000 and this year . so far , the losses from those partnerships remain off enron ' s financial statements , mr . chanos said .
enron ' s stock had been under pressure for most of this year , as the company ran up large losses with failed efforts to expand outside its core trading operation . in august , mr . skilling resigned as chief executive , and mr . lay resumed control of daily operations .
still , the company appeared financially sound until last month , when it disclosed that its shareholders ' equity , a measure of the company ' s value , dropped by $ 1 . 2 billion because of deals disclosed only hazily in its financial statements . the announcement unnerved investors , who wondered whether enron had found ways to inflate its profits and move debt off its balance sheet , and led the s . e . c . to begin an investigation .
mr . lay tried to reassure investors that enron ' s finances were in order and that its businesses remained strong . but the last three weeks have brought a series of damaging revelations about partnerships that enron formed with some of its top executives , including its former chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow .
with questions mounting , the major credit - rating agencies began to downgrade enron ' s debt , putting additional pressure on the company . if enron ' s debt rating falls below investment grade , it would be forced to repay $ 3 . 3 billion in loans that it had guaranteed .
to strengthen its balance sheet and bolster its stock , enron turned to big investors like warren e . buffett in search of billions of dollars of financing . when the financing did not quickly appear , its stock fell further .
by this week , some major energy traders were refusing to extend credit to enron , worrying that the company would be unable to make good on its contracts . the mirant corporation , an atlanta - based power plant owner and electricity trader , sharply curtailed its trading with enron this week . ' ' we ' re trading with them on a very limited basis , ' ' said james peters , a mirant spokesman . ' ' it ' s not business as usual . ' '
on wednesday , enron ' s stock fell as low as $ 7 a share , its lowest level in more than a decade . that day , news of the enron and dynegy talks leaked out .
by late wednesday , the boards of the two companies had tentatively agreed to a deal . but dynegy refused to go ahead until it learned whether enron ' s credit rating would remain investment grade and was comfortable with the effect of the deal on its own rating . the deal moved forward yesterday after dynegy was assured enron ' s debt was not in danger of being lowered to junk status soon after the deal was announced , according to company officials .
dynegy and enron had provided standard & poor ' s and moody ' s investors service , the main credit agencies , with statements showing them what a combined company might look like and asked the ratings agencies for an expedited review of the transaction , mr . watson said .
under the deal , enron shareholders will receive 0 . 2685 share of dynegy stock for each enron share , or $ 9 . 80 based on dynegy ' s closing price on thursday . enron ' s stock gained 22 cents yesterday , to $ 8 . 63 .
' ' i never thought our stock price would be at this level , ' ' mr . lay said yesterday .
enron ' s shareholders will own only 36 percent of the combined company , and dynegy will name at least 11 members of the company ' s 14 - member board .
if the deal falls apart , enron or dynegy will have to pay a breakup fee of $ 350 million .
to protect dynegy ' s and chevrontexaco ' s cash infusion , the money will go to an enron unit that owns the northern natural gas pipeline . if the merger is not completed , dynegy will have the right to buy the unit .
an army of bankers and lawyers advised the companies . lehman brothers inc . acted as financial adviser and baker botts and akin , gump , strauss , hauer & feld acted as counsel for dynegy . j . p . morgan & company and salomon smith barney acted as financial advisers for enron , and vinson & elkins and weil gotshal & manges acted as the company ' s counsel . pillsbury winthrop served as counsel to chevrontexaco .
chart : ' ' a marriage of strength and weakness ' ' a merger of enron and dynegy would bring together two of the country ' s biggest energy companies - - and save enron from potential collapse . graph tracks the weekly closes of enron shares from 1999 through 2001 . top north american gas marketers sales , of billion cubic feet per day * enron : 24 . 6 reliant : 13 . 2 duke energy : 12 . 8 bp : 12 . 3 mirant : 11 . 8 dynegy : 10 . 9 top north american power marketers sales , of million megawatt hours * enron : 212 . 5 american electric power : 134 . 5 duke energy : 118 . 1 reliant resources : 86 . 1 pg simmons natural gas week ) ( pg . c 2 )
dynegy , enron merger deal worth almost $ 25 billion
melita marie garza
11 / 10 / 2001
krtbn knight - ridder tribune business news : chicago tribune - illinois
copyright ( c ) 2001 krtbn knight ridder tribune business news ; source : world reporter ( tm )
enron corp . , the nation ' s biggest power trader , was taken over by its smaller , more conservative rival , dynegy inc . in a merger deal valued at nearly $ 25 billion , company officials announced friday .
the combined company will be called dynegy inc . and will be headed by chuck watson , dynegy ' s chairman and chief executive . if it wins regulatory and shareholder approval , the deal would propel dynegy , the sixth - largest u . s . power trader , to the no . 1 position , with more than 30 percent of the market .
the houston - based competitors are new - breed energy companies , formed to capitalize on wholesale power marketing and trading , with dynegy emphasizing its own power generation capabilities .
enron , meanwhile , has been laid low in recent weeks by soured transactions with energy partnerships run by one of its former executives and by a series of revelations about questionable accounting practices . enron this week was forced to restate its earnings over the past five years - - revising them downward by 20 percent , or $ 586 million - - and has seen its stock price plunge more than 80 percent in the past three weeks .
both enron and dynegy have extensive business dealings in illinois , one of the first states to begin deregulating its electric power industry ; among other things , dynegy owns illinois power , a downstate utility .
the new dynegy would become one of the largest companies in the world , with revenues exceeding $ 200 billion and assets of roughly $ 90 billion , company officials said . by comparison , exxonmobil , the nation ' s largest company , reported revenues of $ 232 . 7 billion in 2000 .
" we needed to do something to strengthen our balance sheet and get the investor community focused on the core energy business , " said kenneth lay , enron ' s chairman and chief executive . " we looked at several alternatives ; this was in the best interests of our employees and shareholders . "
lay said he would not have a role in running the new company , but was considering a request to serve on the newly combined board .
watson , dynegy ' s chairman , said the merger compact included escape clauses for dynegy . " but , i wouldn ' t be standing here if i expected to see that ( used ) . i really believe the value degradation in enron had nothing to do with their core business . we looked under the hood , it is just as strong as we thought it was . "
still , watson acknowledged the possibility that more problems may surface at enron . " i don ' t think anybody can absolutely unequivocally say there ' s nothing ( more ) there , " he said .
dynegy ' s stock price closed higher friday , rising $ 2 . 26 , or 6 . 2 percent , to $ 38 . 76 . enron ' s stock was down 33 cents , or 3 . 7 percent , at $ 8 . 63 a share .
together , the companies have natural gas sales of about 40 billion cubic feet per day through the third quarter of 2001 and power sales exceeding 500 million megawatt hours through the third quarter of 2001 . in addition , the new dynegy ' s delivery network will include more than 22 , 000 megawatts of generating capacity and 25 , 000 miles of interstate pipelines . in enron , dynegy is taking on a company saddled with a heavy debt load and a credit rating that has been downgraded to near junk bond status and is under the cloud of a securities and exchange commission investigation .
under the stock for stock swap portion of the deal , valued at $ 8 . 846 billion , dynegy is paying about $ 10 . 41 a share for the 850 million outstanding enron shares . dynegy would pay . 2685 shares of its stock for each share of enron .
in addition , dynegy agreed to provide $ 1 . 5 billion infusion in cash to help stabilize its much larger competitor and assume an estimated $ 15 billion in debt .
just thursday enron reported that its debt was an estimated $ 12 . 9 billion pending completion of financial statements dated sept . 30 . a day later the company ' s accounting of its debt jumped $ 2 billion .
dynegy ' s current shareholders , including chevron texaco corp . , will end up owning 64 percent of the new company . chevron texaco said it would invest an additional $ 2 . 5 billion in dynegy .
enron ' s stockholders will own about 36 percent of the combined company ' s stock at closing , which is anticipated for the third quarter of 2002 .
in illinois , in addition to illinois power , dynegy owns a chicago area electricity peaker plant and is a partner with nicor inc . , in nicor energy , an unregulated natural gas utility in the chicago area .
enron ' s subsidiary , enron energy services , has a high - profile contract to provide 60 percent of chicago city government ' s electricity . it also has contracts to provide electricity to quaker oats co . and the university of chicago , among others .
in addition to watson , other top dynegy management will remain in place in the new company . steve bergstrom , president of dynegy inc . , and rob doty , chief financial officer of dynegy inc . , will retain those positions in the combined company . enron ' s current president and chief operating officer , greg whalley , will become an executive vice president of the new dynegy . the board of directors of the combined company will be comprised of 14 members . dynegy ' s 11 designees will include three from chevrontexaco . enron will have the right to designate a minimum of three board members .
business / financial desk ; section c
regulators struggle with a marketplace created by enron
by jeff gerth with richard a . oppel jr .
11 / 10 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
washington , nov . 9 - - for years , the enron corporation used its political muscle to build the markets in which it thrived , pushing relentlessly on capitol hill and in bureaucratic backwaters to deregulate the nation ' s natural gas and electricity businesses .
its achievement , as one enron executive said today , in creating a ' ' regulatory black hole ' ' fit nicely with what he called the company ' s ' ' core management philosophy , which was to be the first mover into a market and to make money in the initial chaos and lack of transparency . ' '
now , wall street ' s dissatisfaction with enron ' s secretive ways has delivered the company into the arms of its much smaller houston rival , dynegy inc . , in a deal worth about $ 9 billion in stock and the assumption of $ 13 billion in debt . the combination of the two companies , energy experts and lawmakers said today , poses a novel set of challenges for regulators still struggling to grasp the complexities of the marketplace that enron invented .
' ' we ' re in a supersonic - speed era of electronic trading with a horse - and - buggy - era regulatory system to protect consumers , ' ' said representative edward j . markey , a massachusetts democrat who has devised legislation to close the regulatory gap .
dynegy ' s acquisition of enron is expected to be reviewed by numerous state and federal agencies , led by the justice department , the federal trade commission and the federal energy regulatory commission .
analysts said today that sharp scrutiny would be given to the combined companies ' holdings in california , where dynegy owns generating plants and enron controls a large part of the market for trading natural gas - - the fuel for a big share of the state ' s electric power plants .
' ' dynegy would now have a greater ability to take the dominant position in gas and raise the price of electricity , ' ' said frank wolak , a professor of economics at stanford university .
mr . wolak , a consultant to the justice department on a 1999 antitrust case that led to limits on another merger of electricity and natural gas companies in southern california , said he was skeptical that regulators were up to the task of reviewing today ' s deal .
the transaction ' ' is something the department of justice needs to look at , and they are going to have a hard time looking at , ' ' mr . wolak said . ' ' and it ' s beyond the ability of the f . e . r . c . to look at . ' '
pat wood - - named chairman of the federal energy commission earlier this year with the backing of kenneth l . lay , the chairman of enron - - acknowledged in an interview today that the agency had ' ' a long way to go ' ' in matching the sophistication of the companies it regulates .
but he said that the commission had made great strides in grappling with the new risk management techniques pioneered by enron , dynegy and other energy companies . it is hiring more experts , he said , adopting more restrictive rules on how much ' ' market power ' ' one party can control and requiring more disclosure of certain energy transactions .
in an interview this evening , charles l . watson , the chairman of dynegy , said he did not believe that regulators reviewing the deal with enron would require the sale of any assets . ' ' we haven ' t really identified any pitfalls that require any sort of asset divestiture , ' ' he said . ' ' there ' s not really any overlap . ' '
a senior executive at one of enron ' s largest energy - trading rivals disagreed . ' ' i don ' t think this deal gets through unscathed , ' ' he said today . ' ' i ' m sure the justice department and the f . t . c . will look closely at the pretty substantial concentration of market power these companies will have in the energy - trading area . ' '
enron is mainly a trader of natural gas and electricity - - indeed , the biggest player in both those markets - - and it also owns a network of gas pipelines . dynegy processes and sells natural gas and generates and sells electricity . each company owns a local electric utility , too : dynegy owns illinois power in decatur , ill . , while enron owns portland general electric in portland , ore . , but last month announced plans to sell it to another oregon utility .
for a decade , as it transformed itself from a gas pipeline operator into the nation ' s biggest energy trader , enron enjoyed unalloyed lobbying success in washington and the enthusiastic backing of wall street .
in the early months of the bush administration , mr . lay - - whose company was one of the biggest financial backers of george w . bush ' s presidential campaign - - played a prominent , and some said unusual , role in helping the white house pick nominees to the federal energy commission . enron executives met with vice president dick cheney , whose energy task force backed many of the deregulatory initiatives pushed by mr . lay .
now , ' ' the company has become a pariah , ' ' an enron executive said today . ' ' the bush administration doesn ' t want to have anything to do with us . ' '
the problems began with the energy crisis in california , where enron ' s outspoken defense of deregulation , even more than its electricity trading activities , made the company a favorite whipping boy of politicians and consumer advocates . in the financial markets , meanwhile , enron ' s confusing disclosures , tolerated when its stock was soaring , drew disdain as the calming of the energy storms in california and other parts of the country beat the shares down , starting last spring .
' ' enron fell victim to their own inconsistencies on transparency , ' ' mr . wolak said . as california officials sought to understand why energy prices had soared out of control , he said , enron ' s ' ' view was that we want everybody ' s data , but if you want ours , get a subpoena . ' '
energy executives and regulators said that sort of arrogance had long marked enron ' s attitude about government oversight .
electricity sales had for decades been the job of local utility companies , operating as monopolies and selling power at regulated rates within their service areas . a few entrepreneurs , led by mr . lay , conceived a different model in which power could be sold by generators or middlemen to big corporate users or utilities in faraway regions , at whatever price the market would bear .
in the early 1990 ' s , congress - - under heavy lobbying by enron - - passed legislation that began to open up electricity sales to marketers . before long , enron became one of the first companies to receive government approval to sell electricity at market rates . the market for interstate sales of natural gas had been freed up a few years earlier , and critics complained that traders like enron were gleaning their profits by stoking volatility in gas prices .
in the mid - 1990 ' s , independent gas producers backed legislation in congress to allow the creation of a co - operative marketing organization , which , they hoped , would have helped stabilize prices .
raymond plank , the chairman of the apache corporation , a gas producer based in houston , said that the big gas marketing and trading companies , including enron , successfully lobbied to kill the plan , leaving prices as volatile as ever .
' ' it was a great concept , ' ' mr . plank said . ' ' we could have headed off the problems we have today . ' '
enron ' s final lobbying success came last year . with a strong push from the company ' s lobbyists , congress passed futures trading legislation that exempted internet energy trading platforms like enrononline , the industry leader , from oversight by the commodity futures trading commission . enron takes the other side of trades on its exchange . in traditional markets like the new york mercantile exchange , which remain subject to oversight , the exchange acts as a middleman between buyers and sellers .
under mr . watson , dynegy has been less of a pathbreaker than enron , and though california politicians denounced it , too , as a profiteer during the energy crisis , most analysts say it has been less aggressive than enron in both its business practices and its lobbying .
indeed , the rival energy - trading executive today predicted ' ' a huge culture clash ' ' as the houston neighbors merge . ' ' blood will flow in houston over the integration of the trading operation , ' ' he said .
but regulators may find dynegy easier to deal with .
earlier this year , the federal energy commission asked for comments on whether it should tighten scrutiny of dealings between natural gas pipelines and energy - trading shops owned by the same company .
enron wondered what all the bother was . ' ' would stricter rules prevent real affiliate abuse that current rules do not , ' ' it wrote in a regulatory filing , ' ' or would they instead merely restrict the activities of some of the more successful participants in the marketplace ? ' '
dynegy , by contrast , painted a grim picture and invited regulators to crack down . ' ' abuses abound , ' ' it said , ' ' because of financial windfalls , difficulty of detection , lengthy investigations and increased complexity of the market . ' '
report on business : canadian
dynegy to buy troubled rival enron
reuter news agency
11 / 10 / 2001
the globe and mail
metro
b 4
" all material copyright ( c ) bell globemedia publishing inc . and its licensors . all rights reserved . "
new york - - energy provider dynegy inc . agreed yesterday to acquire fast - sinking rival enron corp . for $ 9 . 5 - billion ( u . s . ) , signalling the demise of a company that just months ago was one of wall street ' s highest fliers .
terms of the transaction call for dynegy to swap 0 . 2685 shares of its own stock for each enron share , the companies said . that would value houston - based enron at $ 10 . 41 a share , including convertible stock , a premium of 21 per cent over yesterday ' s closing price of $ 8 . 63 .
chevrontexaco corp . , which owns a 27 - per - cent stake in dynegy , has agreed to infuse $ 1 . 5 - billion immediately into enron to support it until the deal closes . " with its market - making capabilities , earnings power and proven strategic approach to wholesale markets , enron is the ideal strategic partner , " said dynegy chairman and chief executive officer chuck watson .
enron , the united states ' largest energy trader , has been struggling to overcome a plummeting stock price and credit rating in the past month following disclosures of deals being investigated by the u . s . securities and exchange commission for possible conflict of interest .
financial desk
the nation smaller rival to acquire teetering enron power : energy giant that pressed for deregulation in california is on the brink of collapse .
nancy rivera brooks ; thomas s . mulligan ; nancy vogel
times staff writers
11 / 10 / 2001
los angeles times
home edition
a - 1
copyright 2001 / the times mirror company
enron corp . , the once - highflying energy giant whose aggressive efforts to profit from california ' s energy deregulation made it a target of consumer and political backlash , on friday agreed to be saved from possible financial collapse through a proposed acquisition by rival dynegy inc .
the roughly $ 7 . 7 - billion deal is a stunning plot twist for houston - based enron , which was vilified in california as it was being glorified on wall street . in only the last month , a series of disturbing financial revelations pushed to the edge of ruin this once - powerful company , whose top executives had lectured california on its energy foibles and who influenced the direction of national energy policy .
enron muscled its way to the top of the energy heap using aggressive and , in the end , financially suspect strategies that proved its undoing .
now , the company that late last year had a market value of $ 63 billion is worth one - tenth that and has agreed to be swallowed by a cross - town competitor one - quarter its size . enron ' s proud and influential chairman and chief executive , kenneth l . lay , who became a focus of bitter attacks by california politicians and regulators , would lose his job , as would many others at enron .
even the name would disappear . the combined company would be called dynegy inc . if the deal receives all the necessary regulatory and shareholder approvals .
california officials took no joy in enron ' s fate friday , though there was perhaps some sense of retribution from its many critics in the state .
" this is basically a rogue corporation , " said sen . steve peace ( d - el cajon ) , an outspoken critic of enron for years who dealt with the company as he chaired the committee that hammered out the legislative portion of california ' s landmark electricity deregulation plan in 1996 . " it has from the beginning been a rogue corporation which answered in its mind to a higher law - - a fundamental belief that there are laws of economics that supersede the law of the land . "
a failed experiment
steve maviglio , spokesman for gov . gray davis , said that although enron was never a major force in california ' s doomed electricity market , it was outspoken in support of deregulation .
" in a sense , their experiment was much like california ' s experiment - - a failure , " he said .
said harvey rosenfield , president of the foundation for taxpayer and consumer rights in santa monica : " nothing could better illustrate the disaster of deregulation than the fact that one of its biggest proponents , which reaped the reward of deregulation , is suffering the consequences . "
enron is the world ' s largest energy trader , handling one of four energy deals in the united states through its online trading operation , enrononline . since it reported a surprising third - quarter loss on oct . 16 , partly tied to shadowy investment vehicles , enron has endured a huge loss of investor confidence , which brought on a massive cash crunch and some shrinkage of its trading business .
under the deal announced friday , dynegy , invited in two weeks ago after enron fell short in its efforts to line up new financing , would immediately help enron by pouring $ 1 . 5 billion in cash into the company . the money would be provided by chevrontexaco corp . , the san francisco oil company that owns nearly 27 % of dynegy .
enron shareholders would get 0 . 2685 dynegy share for each enron share , which values the company at about $ 7 . 7 billion based on friday ' s stock close . dynegy shares surged $ 2 . 26 to close at $ 38 . 76 per share on the new york stock exchange ; enron added 22 cents to close at $ 8 . 63 per share , still off 89 % year to date .
if the deal closes in six to nine months , as the parties expect , dynegy and chevrontexaco would invest $ 1 billion additionally in the combined company .
" this is just a financial bonanza really for both companies , " said charles l . watson , dynegy chairman and ch