Subject: enron mentions
usa : dynegy sees no more nasty surprises from enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 12 / 01
usa : update 2 - enron , dynegy shares rise despite mixed reviews .
reuters english news service , 11 / 12 / 01
some arb traders view enron stock as too risky to buy
dow jones news service , 11 / 12 / 01
energy companies still shy on enron despite dynegy deal
dow jones energy service , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy , enron officials confident merger will clear scrutiny
associated press newswires , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy call - 4 : held talks with ratings agencies
dow jones news service , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy conference call demand jams phone lines , internet
dow jones energy service , 11 / 12 / 01
s dynegy & enron deal update
cnnfn : market coverage - morning , 11 / 12 / 01
innogy resumes trading with enron after 14 - day break
dow jones energy service , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy pres : enron ' s core business is very , very strong
dow jones news service , 11 / 12 / 01
usa : enron advisors seen mulling investment - wsj .
reuters english news service , 11 / 12 / 01
duke is owed about $ 100 mln by enron , executive says ( update 2 )
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy shares surge after it agrees to buy enron ( update 3 )
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy ' s charles watson ( transcript of interview )
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy sees enron rating remaining investment grade ( update 5 )
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy calls sec ' s probe of enron ` financial noise ' ( update 5 )
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
usa : dynegy sees no more nasty surprises from enron .
by andrew kelly
11 / 12 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
houston , nov 12 ( reuters ) - dynegy inc . said on monday does not foresee any damaging disclosures from enron corp . , slammed by news of murky off - balance sheet transactions , that could derail its planned takeover of the beleaguered energy trading giant .
however , dynegy said it can drop its $ 9 billion offer if more bad news emerges , or if pending lawsuits against enron lead to more than $ 3 . 5 billion in costs .
dynegy also expressed confidence the takeover announced on friday , will win u . s . regulatory approval .
" i really have a good deal of confidence , but not an absolute guarantee , that we are going to be fine here , " said dynegy chief executive officer chuck watson , when pressed about the possibility of further troubling disclosures by enron .
watson said dynegy had run the deal through worst - case scenarios and concluded that it made good business sense .
investors apparently agreed , bidding up dynegy shares $ 5 . 55 , or 14 . 3 percent , to close at $ 44 . 31 on the new york stock exchange . enron shares gained 61 cents , to 7 . 1 percent , to $ 9 . 24 . the deal valued enron stock at $ 10 . 41 .
enron agreed to a dynegy buyout after it was overwhelmed by a series of problems , including a u . s . regulatory probe into the off - balance sheet dealings , a $ 1 . 2 billion cut in shareholder equity and damaging credit rating downgrades .
watson has cause for concern about new disclosures from enron , which last thursday said an internal probe showed its earnings had been overstated by some $ 600 million since 1997 .
in a conference call with analysts on monday , dynegy executives emphasized their confidence in the future of the combined company , including annual projected earnings - per - share growth of 15 percent to 20 percent over the next three years .
but they also fielded a barrage of questions about how well dynegy has insulated itself against further surprises of the kind that had slashed enron ' s market value last week to barely one - tenth the almost $ 80 billion it was valued in august 2000 .
dynegy doubts huge liabilities
to ensure against unpleasant disclosures , dynegy wrote so - called material adverse change clauses into the deal , allowing it to walk away from enron if there is serious deterioration of its businesses or assets .
in particular , dynegy can turn its back on the deal if pending litigation against enron - including a stack of lawsuits filed by angry investors who have lost a fortune - leads to costs of more than $ 3 . 5 billion .
chief financial officer rob doty said it was highly unlikely that this threshold would be reached , even if a " very substantial " settlement was reached in the stockholder suits .
commerzbank securities analyst andre meade said he was not yet convinced that the stream of bad news from enron was over .
" i think dynegy is making a big bet that they can successfully clean up the problems that enron has had , " he said .
but ubs warburg analyst jay yannello said after hearing management discuss the deal , he was reassured it could address tough questions - a breath of fresh air after enron ' s tight - lipped response to investors .
some analysts have said the deal could be thwarted by regulators because of concerns that dynegy would be too powerful after merging with enron , currently north america ' s biggest buyer and seller of both natural gas and electricity .
watson said dynegy would have to work hard to explain the deal to regulators , led by the federal energy regulatory commission , but does not doubt it will eventually pass muster .
" we really are confident that up and down the line we are going to be able to convince them that this is really in the best interest of the energy industry as well as these two respective companies , " he said .
gas pipeline option , break - up fees
dynegy executives also said there would be no complicated financing arrangements of the kind that triggered enron ' s downfall , and that the new dynegy will be able to keep top enron executives and traders from defecting to rival firms .
enron officials declined to comment on reports that its banks j . p . morgan and citigroup were considering pumping an extra $ 500 million of capital in to enron .
oil company chevrontexaco inc . , a major dynegy stockholder , has already agreed to inject $ 1 . 5 billion into enron immediately to keep it afloat while the merger is completed , which dynegy expects to take six to nine months .
if enron backs out of the deal to accept a higher offer , it would have to pay a $ 350 million breakup fee to dyegy .
and if the deal breaks down for any reason , dynegy would be allowed to exercise an option to acquire enron ' s northern natural gas pipeline subsidiary .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
usa : update 2 - enron , dynegy shares rise despite mixed reviews .
11 / 12 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
( new third paragraph points out gap between enron stock
price and value of dynegy offer )
by janet mcgurty
new york , nov 12 ( reuters ) - shares of enron corp . climbed higher on monday on investor enthusiasm over last week ' s $ 9 billion bid by rival energy trader dynegy inc . to take over the beleaguered energy giant .
dynegy gained $ 5 . 55 , or 14 . 3 percent , to $ 44 . 31 in afternoon trade on the new york stock exchange , while shares of enron rose 69 cents , or 8 percent , to $ 9 . 32 . the takeover announced friday halted a free - fall in enron ' s stock that lost about 75 percent of its market capitalization in the past month .
however , enron ' s stock was trading well below the value of dynegy ' s offer of 0 . 2685 dynegy shares for each enron share , which translates into $ 11 . 94 per share . analysts said this likely reflected doubts in some investors minds as to whether the deal , which includes " escape clauses " for dynegy , will go through .
some industry analysts said they were impressed by the upfront details offered by dynegy during a conference call with analysts , an about - face compared with calls with enron . a lack of transparency from enron about its off - balance sheet transactions , along with a u . s . regulatory investigation , had sparked widespread investor unease .
" i would say that after listening to the conference call , i am even more comfortable with my initial judgment that the projections are conservative , " said jay yannello , an analyst with ubs warburg .
earlier , yannello reiterated a " strong buy " on dynegy , saying while the brokerage does not underestimate the enormous challenge at hand , the takeover should yield the biggest and most credible energy merchant in the world . dynegy is about one - fifth the size of enron when measured by revenues .
enron ' s woes came to light in mid - october after the biggest energy trader in north america disclosed that some of its off - balance sheet partners contributed to a $ 1 billion charge and a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity .
the takeover is an attractive transaction because of enron ' s trading operations , which combined with dynegy ' s above - board culture based on teamwork , strict values and honesty , should yield a formidable company , yannello said .
" as dynegy continues to do due diligence , we continue to be comfortable with the fact that , if there was another shoe to drop , they have more than adequate protection in this arrangement to either absorb the impact of that event or to get out of the deal , in the worst case scenario . " he said .
" we view the both the near and long - term upside potential of this deal as staggering , " he added .
low risks , high rewards
however , last week some antitrust lawyers said the deal will be closely examined by the federal trade commission because of the combined company ' s market share in energy trading , said steve newborn , formerly in charge of ftc merger enforcement .
on monday , ratings agency fitch downgraded the ratings of marlin and osprey , two enron ' s off - balance sheet partnerships , covering about $ 3 . 3 billion in senior secured notes , on a deterioration of enron ' s credit profile .
" we lowered our ratings to be consistent with actions we have taken on enron , " said fitch credit analyst ralph pellecchia , who added he is not aware of any material impact the moves could have on enron . the downgrade was expected .
gordon howald , an analyst at credit lyonnaise securities , also said he is favorably disposed toward the takeover , which he called a " low risk - high reward proposition . "
the most critical component is the immediate $ 1 . 5 billion equity infusion by dynegy shareholder chevrontexaco into enron will bolster enron and help keep it viable .
" it appears . . . that dynegy has enough ' out ' clauses to at least protect itself if it decides not to pursue this transaction in the future , " said howald .
however , howald said he is not convinced this is an offensive move by dynegy , but rather a defensive to move to protect itself and the industry from a potential enron bankruptcy .
but even if it is defensive , dynegy walks away from the deal with the rights to enron ' s northern natural gas pipeline , which produced about about half of enron ' s pipeline earnings , and $ 350 million in cash , he said .
doubts persist
some analysts are less sanguine . they said dynegy is making a big bet that it can successfully clean up enron ' s balance sheet problems as well as integrate its trading and marketing business without losing a lot of key traders and volumes .
" enron ' s principal - and most valuable asset - is its traders . and those people are mobile , " said andre mead , an analyst at commerzbank who said that he expects a six - to nine - month period of uncertainty in which both companies could lose their key trading personnel .
meade also said that enron ' s restatement of earnings has called into question the quality and sources of its earnings .
" i am not convinced that all the bad news related to those off - balance sheet vehicles are out and all disclosures concerning those entities have been made , " he said .
" dynegy put some bearish assumptions in there when they decided to bid for enron . but the jury is out , enron is a deeply troubled company , " he said .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
some arb traders view enron stock as too risky to buy
by janet whitman
of dow jones newswires
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones news service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones 201 - 938 - 5248 ; janet . whitman @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
energy companies still shy on enron despite dynegy deal
by jon kamp , john edmiston and andrew dowell
of dow jones newswires
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones energy service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - ( dow jones ) - credit concerns led u . s . energy companies to continue to restrict their dealings with enron corp . ( ene ) monday , despite last week ' s announcement that the company has agreed to be acquired by dynegy inc . ( dyn ) .
trading counterparties in enron ' s core north american electricity and natural gas markets said they were only doing necessary transactions and low - risk , short - term deals with the houston - based giant as they monitored developments with enron ' s credit rating .
" as of last week , our value at risk to enron was down considerably from where it once was , " said al butkus , spokesman for aquila corp . ( ila ) , a leading trader of north american power and gas . " it ' s down even further today . "
in comments similar to those made by others in the market , butkus said aquila wants to see an improvement in enron ' s credit rating and won ' t increase its exposure on the strength of the dynegy announcement alone .
the $ 8 . 85 billion dynegy buyout announced friday isn ' t a done deal , and enron remains a serious credit risk if the deal doesn ' t go through , a power trader working in the markets east of the rockies said .
" there just seems to be some concern that dynegy has quite a few opportunities to get out of it , " the trader said .
added another , " this announcement hasn ' t changed anything . "
enron spokesman eric thode said , to the contrary , that the company has seen a " dramatic " increase in trading business monday from levels seen at the end of last week .
" today ' s figures are on line to be much larger than thursday or friday , " thode said . " the certainty now of the deal with dynegy takes away those fears , those question marks . "
volumes on enrononline , the company ' s internet - based trading platform , are expected to top 5 , 000 transactions monday , up from around 4 , 000 thursday and friday and near the 30 - day rolling average of 5 , 600 to 5 , 800 , thode said . volumes at the beginning of last week topped 6 , 000 , he said .
to be sure , traders generally saw the dynegy buyout announcement as a sign enron ' s prospects have improved , and traders in some regions said they were seeing more normal activity on enrononline after last week ' s reduced volumes .
still , credit concerns are preventing many in the market from doing business with enron .
standard & poor ' s and moody ' s investors service rate enron ' s credit at the lowest level of investment grade , and both have the company on negative credit watch or review for a downgrade .
in the absence of a deal with dynegy or one like it , enron ' s ratings would fall into junk - bond territory , s & p analysts said on a conference call monday .
as reported , dynegy ' s acquisition agreement allows the company to walk away if enron ' s additional legal and financial liabilities exceed $ 3 . 5 billion . there also are other " material adverse change " provisions , officials said .
the energy markets and ratings agencies are also waiting for dynegy to make good on its pledge to inject $ 1 . 5 billion immediately into enron to shore up its finances . an infusion of cash would be a " stabilizing event , " moody ' s said last week .
charlie sanchez , an energy marketing manager at gilber 201 - 938 - 4430 ; andrew . dowell @ dowjones . com
( jon kamp in chicago and john edmiston in houston contributed to this article . )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
dynegy , enron officials confident merger will clear scrutiny
by juan a . lozano
associated press writer
11 / 12 / 2001
associated press newswires
copyright 2001 . the associated press . all rights reserved .
houston ( ap ) - executives of dynegy inc . and enron corp . believe their plan to merge the nation ' s two dominant energy marketing companies will overcome federal antitrust scrutiny , leading to a completed deal by next summer .
" we really are confident that up and down the line we will be able to convince ( federal regulators ) this is in the best interest of the energy industry and the two companies , " said chuck watson , chairman and chief executive officer of dynegy .
investors pleased with the deal to bail out the once mighty but now troubled enron sent the shares of both companies soaring monday - in midday trading enron shares were up 10 . 5 percent , and dynegy shares rose 12 percent .
steve bergstrom , dynegy ' s president , said the closest regulatory scrutiny would come from the federal energy regulatory commission , but that he expected all antitrust hurdles would be cleared within the next six to nine months .
the deal , worth at least $ 9 billion , was announced friday . dynegy also will assume $ 13 billion of enron debt .
enron became a takeover target after its stock plunged about 80 percent in recent weeks because of concerns that the nation ' s top buyer and seller of natural gas wasn ' t revealing serious financial problems to shareholders .
dynegy officials pledged monday that they won ' t tolerate the sort of financial practices that prompted enron to acknowledge last week that it overstated earnings by about 20 percent since 1997 and kept more than half a billion dollars in debt off the company ' s books .
those financial practices included business partnerships now under investigation by the securities and exchange commission .
" dynegy will manage the new company in the way we ' ve managed the old company . we will substantially simplify the balance sheet , " said rob doty , dynegy ' s chief financial officer .
after the merger is completed , the enron name will disappear . watson will serve as chairman and chief executive of the combined company . dynegy ' s stockholders will own about 64 percent of the new company and enron ' s stockholders will hold the rest .
enron ' s stock price began to free fall after enron announced a $ 618 million third quarter loss on oct . 16 and disclosed a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity related to the partnerships . that was followed by news of the sec investigation .
enron responded by firing its chief financial officer , andrew fastow , who ran the partnerships , and scrambled to get cash and increase credit lines to regain investor confidence . investors didn ' t respond and dumped enron shares , sending its stock plummeting .
the deal to merge the companies was announced after the stock markets closed on friday , and investors reacted positively to the news monday .
in midday trading , dynegy shares rose $ 4 . 63 to $ 43 . 39 on the new york stock exchange . enron shares were up 91 cents to $ 9 . 54 on the nyse - but still much lower than the 52 - week high of $ 84 . 87 .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
dynegy call - 4 : held talks with ratings agencies
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones news service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
dynegy ' s bergstrom said he expects the acquisition of enron will receive the needed regulatory approvals and close within the next six to nine months .
in addition to approval by the securities and exchange commission , the deal must be approved by the federal energy regulatory commission .
" we expect ferc to be the pacesetter , " bergstrom said .
until the deal closes , dynegy expects enron will have " sufficient interim liquidity , " doty said . " ( the cash infusion ) should immediately put to rest the liquidity concerns . "
based on conversations dynegy had with the leading credit rating agencies management expects enron ' s ratings to remain investment grade , doty said . meanwhile , dynegy ' s ratings are expected to be affirmed at their current ratings , but be placed on watch for a downgrade until the transaction is completed , he said .
according to doty , dynegy expects its debt - to - capital ratio will be below 40 % after the acquisition closes .
enron said it wouldn ' t comment on reports published in the wall street journal monday that said its bankers , j . p . morgan chase & co . ( jpm ) and citigroup inc . ( c ) are considering making an additional $ 500 million investment in enron .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
dynegy conference call demand jams phone lines , internet
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones energy service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
houston - ( dow jones ) - a monday morning conference call by dynegy inc . ( dyn ) and enron corp . ( ene ) to discuss their proposed merger had hundreds listening over the phone and thousands via a website .
but an unknown number were unable to access either the call or the webcast .
" we were able to accommodate 925 people on the phone , " said jennifer rosser , a dynegy spokeswoman . the company had originally reserved 750 phone lines for the conference call .
" approximately 30 , 000 people logged onto the webcast , " rosser said . " we had to limit it to that number before it crashed the webcast . "
those unable to hear the call waited 10 minutes or more before being told that all the phone lines reserved for conference call were taken .
the web site also took a potential user ' s information and then came back with a message saying the webcast was unavailable .
the merger agreement by which dynegy would purchase enron for $ 8 billion to $ 9 billion plus debt was announced friday .
" monday morning was the first time for a lot of people to have the opportunity to hear the executives talk about ( the merger ) , " rosser said .
a replay of the conference call may be heard by calling ( 888 ) 568 - 0511 . the replay will be available from 1 p . m . est today through 6 p . m . est friday .
- by erwin seba , dow jones newswires , 713 - 547 - 9214 erwin . seba @ dowjones . com
a replay of a monday morning conference call by executives of dynegy inc . ( dyn ) and enron corp . ( ene ) is available at 1 - 888 - 568 - 0510 .
( an item published at 12 : 24 p . m . est ( 1724 gmt ) misstated the phone number . )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
s & p says doesn ' t fully understand all enron partnerships
by christine richard and michael barr
of dow jones newswires
11 / 12 / 2001
capital markets report
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - ( dow jones ) - enron corp . ( ene ) has retained its investment grade rating because dynegy inc . ' s ( dyn ) bid to take over the beleaguered company has restored some much needed investor confidence , standard & poor ' s analysts said monday during a conference call .
in fact , in the absence of any deal , such as that put forward last week by dynegy , enron would be rated low double - b or high single - b , s & p analysts said . s & p recently lowered enron ' s rating to triple - b minus from triple - b , leaving it one notch above speculative grade status .
that ' s important because enron ' s substantial trading operations are heavily reliant on a strong credit rating to alleviate counterparty credit concerns .
s & p also said monday that it was placing dynegy ' s rating on review for possible downgrade following the news that dynegy was making a stock - for - stock bid for enron . s & p has assigned dynegy a senior unsecured debt rating of triple - b .
s & p officials stressed that what has weighed most heavily on enron ' s rating in the last few weeks has been declining investor confidence .
" the company is not in danger of imminent bankruptcy , or default , " said ron barone , an s & p analyst .
however , the s & p read on investor confidence is that " enron is not all that viable right now , " said one analyst .
s & p analysts stated that they might not fully understand all the enron partnerships .
" there is a little uncertainty about all the partnerships that enron has , " said barone . but , s & p analysts added , they did understand the financial impact of the partnerships that have been disclosed .
enron stock and bonds have been battered since the company revealed the extent of its dealings with partnerships set up and run by its former chief financial officer , andrew fastow .
while s & p is assuming enron has disclosed all the relevant information about those partnerships , there may be more details forthcoming as a special committee established by enron goes about its work , they added .
s & p ' s downgrade to of enron to triple - b - minus was due to an erosion of investor confidence , analysts stressed . and , the enron negative creditwatch " was a heads - up to enron counterparties , " said an analyst .
s & p analysts said that despite the decision to place dynegy on negative creditwatch , the ratings could remain at the same level , at triple - b .
for that to happen , it will be necessary for dynegy to dispose of non - core assets that " could impair the new dynegy balance sheet , " said an s 201 - 938 - 2008 ;
michael . barr @ dowjones . com
- by christine richard ; dow jones newswires , 201 - 938 - 2189 ;
christinerichard @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
india : utilities to value enron ' s indian assets - lender .
11 / 12 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
bombay , nov 12 ( reuters ) - two indian private utilities will start valuing dabhol power co ' s assets in a few days as a prelude to possibly buying u . s . energy major enron corp ' s majority stake , the industrial development bank of india ( idbi ) said on monday .
the tata power co and bses ltd wish to start " due diligence " - inspect the financial records and operations with a view to arriving at a offer price - of dabhol ' s $ 2 . 9 billion power plant on the west coast of india , the project ' s lead lender said in a statement .
enron has been seeking to exit the project since may , but its task of finding a buyer has taken on more urgency after its desperate financial troubles at home .
the largest u . s . energy trader has agreed to be bought out by a smaller rival , dynegy inc , as it tries to salvage its crumbling business empire .
idbi ' s statement comes after three days of closed - door negotiations at the weekend in singapore between the indian lenders ' representatives and enron .
officials from tata power , india ' s largest private power company , and another leading private utility , bses ltd , also attended the meeting .
the two companies have emerged as potential candidates for buying the entire 85 percent foreign holding in dabhol , which was to build and run the 2 , 184 mw plant , the country ' s largest foreign direct investment .
enron owns 65 percent of dabhol , general electric co and bechtel corp own 10 percent each , and the maharashtra state electricity board holds the remaining 15 percent .
" the sale price of the shareholding of enron and its associates in dpc would be decided by the concerned parties through mutual negotiations , " the statement from idbi said .
officials at the lending institutions said that given its troubles at home , enron could now be willing to sell its stake at a considerable discount .
indian banks and institutions have provided loans and guarantees of around $ 1 . 4 billion to the plant .
old dispute
the first phase of enron ' s controversial indian project has been completed , but work on the second phase was abruptly stopped in june following a bitter dispute between enron and a local utility , the maharashtra state electricity board , the plant ' s sole buyer .
the cash - strapped indian utility had in 1995 contracted to buy all the power from dabhol but it later said it did not need all the power and that it was too costly .
while dabhol has said it would prefer to resolve its dispute with the board amicably , it felt the discussions with the power plant ' s indian lenders and the government were not progressing .
if the current round of negotiations do not bear fruit , enron may terminate the contract and file for damages in the international court of arbitration in london .
the country ' s largest term lender , idbi and other indian lenders in the consortium like icici ltd and state bank of india have already moved an indian court to prevent dpc from issuing a final notice to terminate its contract with the loss - making board .
they fear that if enron is unable to sell its stake and terminates its contract with the utility , it could end up defaulting on its loans .
dabhol served a preliminary notice in may to terminate the project and can serve a final notice if a six - month cooling - off period fails to produce a solution .
that six month deadline ends on november 19 .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
fitch downgrades marlin water trust ii and osprey trust i
11 / 12 / 2001
business wire
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , business wire )
new york - - ( business wire ) - - nov . 12 , 2001 - - fitch has downgraded the ratings of marlin water trust ii ' s ( marlin ii ' s ) approximately $ 915 million senior secured notes due 2003 , and osprey trust ' s ( osprey ' s ) approximately $ 2 . 4 billion senior secured notes due 2003 to ` bb ' from ` bbb ' .
the ratings are removed from rating watch negative and placed on rating watch evolving .
these rating actions are the result of deterioration in enron ' s overall credit profile since the securities were placed on rating watch negative on oct . 26 , 2001 . as noted in previous press releases , the ratings of both transactions rely on various forms of support from enron corp . a significant factor in establishing the ratings for the two trusts was last friday ' s announced agreement to merge between enron and dynegy inc . and the positive implications the transaction has on enron ' s credit profile .
the rating of the marlin ii notes is dependent on the overfund account ( pre - funded interest ) and equity commitment from enron in the form of mandatorily convertible preferred stock . the overfund account is invested in enron senior debt securities ( rated ' bbb - ' , rating watch evolving ) , with payments used to service interest to noteholders . payment of principal ultimately relies on enron ' s obligation to remarket mandatorily convertible preferred securities . fitch currently rates enron ' s preferred securities ' b + ' rating watch evolving . in addition , the transaction also benefits from rights under a $ 125 million loan to azurix europe limited , rated ` bbb + ' by fitch . similarly , the rating of the osprey i notes is based on the underlying ratings of the assets in an overfund account and the share trust used to support interest payments and an equity commitment from enron to remarket mandatorily convertible preferred stock to fund principal payments . the assets supporting interest payments include enron unsecured obligations as well as quarterly interest payments on the mandatorily convertible preferred stock , which has been issued and is being held in the share trust .
while various sources of repayment exist , such as sale or liquidation of the underlying assets or an equity offering , in each case primary credit support is derived from enron ' s obligation to remarket mandatorily convertible preferred stock if an amount sufficient to repay the notes has not been deposited with the trustee on the 120 th day prior to the maturity date , which is one of the note trigger events . in the event that the issuance of the preferred stock yields less than the amount required to redeem the senior notes , enron is required to deliver additional shares . if enron cannot or does not deliver on this obligation , subject to certain standstill periods , then the amount of the deficiency becomes a payment obligation of enron , representing a general unsecured claim . considered in the ratings is fitch ' s view that enron ' s payment obligation is not equal to an enron guarantee . additional note trigger events include a downgrade of enron ' s senior unsecured debt below investment grade by any of the major rating a