Subject: enron mentions
dynegy ' s enron deal faces major uncertainties huge new liabilities , possible regulatory opposition may complicate takeover
wall street journal , 11 / 12 / 01
companies microsoft sees reprieve
business line , 11 / 12 / 01
unravelling the dynegy enigma
business standard , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy throws enron $ 44 bn lifeline
australian financial review , 11 / 12 / 01
indian court bars enron from serving final termination notice
asia pulse , 11 / 12 / 01
us utilities trader narrowly escapes junk debt status
the financial news , 11 / 12 / 01
investors priced in enron bond default
the financial news , 11 / 12 / 01
andersen faces jeopardy in enron accounting error , experts say
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy calls sec ' s probe of enron ` financial noise ' ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
citigroup , j . p . morgan mull $ 500 mln enron stake , dow says
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
enron corp . raised to ` hold ' at prudential
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
hedging bets on the enron - dynegy deal
by james j . cramer >
realmoney . com
report on business : the wall street journal
dynegy ' s enron deal faces major uncertainties huge new liabilities , possible regulatory opposition may complicate takeover
john emshwiller and rebecca smith
wall street journal
11 / 12 / 2001
the globe and mail
metro
b 8
" all material copyright ( c ) bell globemedia publishing inc . and its licensors . all rights reserved . "
dynegy inc . ' s proposed $ 8 . 85 - billion ( u . s . ) takeover of enron corp . faces major uncertainties , ranging from possible opposition from regulators to potentially huge new liabilities and writeoffs at enron .
the problem with regulators could come from antitrust worries about folding houston - based enron , the biggest u . s . trader of natural gas and electricity , into dynegy , another major energy trader , also based in houston .
enron currently handles a quarter of all the natural gas and electricity traded in the united states . the combined company - - which would be called dynegy inc . - - would have 22 , 000 megawatts of generating capacity and 40 , 000 kilometres of natural gas pipelines , making it one of the largest companies in the united states in each of those categories .
while enron and dynegy officials said they expect the merger to garner the necessary government approvals , the review by regulators is expected to take months .
as for unpleasant financial surprises , enron has already produced a devastating stream of them over the past month , ranging from huge writeoffs of assets and reductions of shareholder equity to major downward restatements of past earnings reports .
much of this turmoil has been caused by enron ' s dealings with private partnerships run by its own officers .
indeed , recent enron disclosures indicate that as much as half of the company ' s pretax earnings in recent years came from deals with these officer - related partnerships , raising further questions about the quality of enron ' s earnings and the potential for hundreds of millions of dollars of additional writeoffs or restatements .
enron ' s partnership dealings have sparked more than a dozen shareholder lawsuits and a formal investigation by the u . s . securities and exchange commission .
in a measure of the continuing concerns over enron ' s financial condition , both moody ' s investors service and standard & poor ' s once again downgraded enron ' s debt on friday , this time to just one level above non - investment grade , or " junk " status . they also kept the company under review for possible additional downgrades , and s & p put dynegy on the same status .
a downgrade to junk status could force enron to come up with hundreds of millions of dollars in cash or stock to buttress some of its complicated financial transactions .
in an interview friday , dynegy chairman chuck watson said his company made " a good assessment " of enron ' s condition and that in " the worst - case we can come up with . . . we feel comfortable [ that ] the value exceeds the liabilities . "
mr . watson said dynegy has given itself the opportunity to back out of the proposed merger under certain conditions , which he declined to specify .
a person familiar with the deal said that dynegy has a right to walk away if enron ' s additional legal and financial liabilities exceed $ 3 . 5 - billion .
a dynegy spokesman confirmed the figure .
the price being paid - - 0 . 2685 of a dynegy share for each enron share - - is a fire - sale deal by any recent historical standard . the transaction valued enron shares at $ 10 . 41 each , based on dynegy ' s price of $ 38 . 76 friday , up $ 2 . 26 in new york stock exchange trading . enron shares rose 22 cents at $ 8 . 63 in big board trading , a quarter of their price just a month ago and less than a tenth of the all - time high of nearly $ 90 a share reached last year .
the deal envisions quickly pumping $ 1 . 5 - billion of cash into enron to bolster its liquidity and comfort enron ' s trading partners who are increasingly nervous about continuing their business . the funds will come from chevrontexaco corp . , dynegy ' s biggest shareholder with a 26 - per - cent stake . dynegy will use the money to purchase the preferred stock and other rights in an enron pipeline subsidiary .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies it must also renegotiate contracts guaranteeing performance and warranties that have fallen into abeyance with the closure of the plant .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
watson puts trust in the quiet approach .
by sheila mcnulty in houston .
11 / 12 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
charles watson set out 16 years ago with " five guys and a smile " to build what would become dynegy .
that same year , kenneth lay laid the foundations of enron by merging the assets of two established companies . he had an inter - state and intra - state natural gas pipeline company with 37 , 000 miles of pipe .
enron widened its lead over the years , so that last year it reported $ 101 bn in revenue , to dynegy ' s $ 29 bn . it was the number - one seller of natural gas and power in north america and operated the biggest web - based transaction system in the world .
but on friday , the dynegy chief executive brought his company out from enron ' s shadow , agreeing to buy its embattled rival in a deal worth about $ 9 bn in stock . overnight , dynegy became the biggest energy trader in the us . how did he do it ?
where enron emphasised individuality , dynegy stressed teamwork . where enron encouraged entrepreneurship , dynegy stressed customer satisfaction . where enron urged aggression to pervade everything from its trading floors to its financial accountings , dynegy made friendliness and conservatism its culture .
enron had its name emblazoned across houston ' s professional baseball stadium and was building an office tower in downtown houston . dynegy was renting 28 floors out of the wells fargo complex .
enron , mr watson notes , had a reputation for doing business with a swagger . " if that ' s your modus operandi , when things don ' t go well people come after you , " mr watson says . he believes that image of cockiness made questions over enron ' s balance sheet spiral out of control . the balance sheet adjustment itself could not justify the massive degradation of its equity in a matter of weeks .
" the masses at enron are thirsting for a change in image , " mr watson says . he intends to give them that .
mr watson will remain in charge when dynegy takes control of enron in the coming months . he has asked mr lay to join the board , but mr lay has not made a decision . " it ' s been a good ride , for the most part , " mr lay said friday night , but added , " i would say the last three weeks have not been a lot of fun . "
mr watson reached out to mr lay on october 24 , as the crisis of confidence in enron became increasingly untenable . the securities and exchange commission was investigating its finances , investors were dumping its stock and the credit rating agencies were downgrading its debt .
mr watson ' s mother was having heart surgery and he was with her in saint louis .
but he called mr lay to offer to help . in the back of his mind was the possibility of buying enron ' s valuable pipeline assets to provide it with liquidity to support its fast diminishing business .
two days later , mr watson went over to mr lay ' s home to begin working towards a combination .
in a meeting with mr lay and the rest of enron ' s management team , it became clear they were " willing to fix the problem whatever it took " .
mr watson believes the deal was put together so quickly because dynegy works with enron on a daily basis , they know each other ' s people and businesses , and they are both based in houston .
" we ' re one of the few people , maybe the only ones , who could have pulled it off , " he says .
now that he has done so , mr watson plans to move into enron ' s new buildings , but has not decided whether to rename the stadium to reflect its new owner . his teenager wants him too . but that would seem to go against the modesty that enabled dynegy to win in the end .
( c ) copyright financial times group .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
ratings prove crucial at enron .
by jenny wiggins in new york .
11 / 12 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
credit ratings agencies consider themselves independent providers of research and information . but the role played by moody ' s investors service in the sale of enron to dynegy last week shows agencies are often more than dispassionate observers .
in enron ' s case , its credit ratings were crucial to its survival . the company needed an investment grade credit rating to retain the confidence of its energy trading counterparties .
enron ' s solution was to arrange an acquisition by dynegy , but first it received the credit agencies ' blessing .
with the two companies close to a deal on friday morning , moody ' s responded to investor concerns about the company by downgrading the company ' s ratings to just one notch above junk .
however , it also signalled it was prepared to sanction a deal , adding that " a substantial near - term injection of equity capital " would be viewed as " a stabilising event " . that arrived in the form of a $ 1 . 5 bn cash injection from chevrontexaco .
the ratings agency was under pressure to provide a credit outlook . enron generated " a tremendous amount of interest " , including calls from market participants " who wanted to share their opinion " , said moody ' s fran laserson .
moody ' s analyst john diaz said that while the agency had analysed enron ' s financials both on and off its balance sheet , there were " some issues " the agency had not been aware of .
this means that even as they seek to point out the risks inherent in a company ' s balance sheet , they are also looking out for the long - term interest of a company and are willing to give troubled entities some time to deal with problems and get back on their feet .
( c ) copyright financial times group .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
market place
dynegy ' s rushed gamble on enron carries some big risks
by alex berenson and richard a . oppel jr .
11 / 12 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
call it a $ 9 billion shotgun wedding .
dynegy inc . , an energy marketer and trader based in houston , took the biggest gamble in its corporate history on friday by agreeing to buy the enron corporation , its much larger crosstown rival , for more than $ 9 billion in stock . in one decisive move , chuck watson , the chairman of dynegy , positioned his company to become the most important player in the volatile but potentially lucrative business of trading natural gas and electricity .
but the hastily arranged deal carries big risks for dynegy as well , skeptical investors and wall street analysts say . no one outside enron appears to understand the company ' s tangled finances fully , and the speed with which the deal was made did not give dynegy time to scrutinize in great detail enron ' s trading book or the web of partnerships enron has entered to move debt off its balance sheet and hide losses .
the skeptics wonder why dynegy decided to take on enron ' s huge debt , which some analysts say could total $ 23 billion in loans on and off its balance sheet , instead of simply trying to hire away enron ' s best traders , some of whom were already leaving the company .
' ' there are many risks associated with this merger that we will not know about for a while , ' ' said carol coale , an analyst at prudential securities . ' ' we ' re not sure that we know everything there is to know at enron yet . ' '
in addition , enron ' s earnings could be far lower than it has reported , said james chanos , a short - seller who has been a vocal critic . on thursday , enron said in a filing with the securities and exchange commission that it had used partnerships to overstate its earnings by a total of $ 600 million over the last five years . mr . chanos said other information in the filing indicated that more restatements were possible .
with so much uncertainty surrounding enron ' s finances , mr . chanos and other analysts question dynegy ' s decision to move so quickly .
they note that dynegy and enron often traded with each other , and some analysts had wondered whether , if enron had filed for bankruptcy , those trades might be wiped out , leaving dynegy unhedged , or unprotected against sudden movements in the prices of natural gas or electricity .
if , on the other hand , enron is not forced to restate its profits down further , then dynegy has clinched an amazing bargain . analysts say enron will make $ 1 . 80 a share this year , so dynegy is paying just six times enron ' s annual earnings , about a fourth the average ratio of companies in the standard & poor ' s 500 .
dynegy said on friday that the deal should increase its per - share earnings next year by 90 to 95 cents , to $ 3 . 40 to $ 3 . 50 , even without factoring in up to a half - billion dollars in annual savings , before taxes , from the merger . dynegy ' s shares closed friday at $ 38 . 76 , up $ 2 . 26 , so if the company ' s forecast is accurate , it is trading at 11 times its 2002 earnings - - still a bargain compared with the average stock in the s . & . p 500 .
jeff dietert , an analyst with simmons & company in houston , said dynegy ' s estimates for its earnings in 2002 were ' ' conservative and very achievable . ' '
mr . watson said friday that dynegy was confident that enron ' s operations and its trading business were healthy . ' ' we feel this is a very solid company with plenty of capacity to withstand whatever happens the next few months , ' ' he said .
mr . dietert said dynegy needed to strike a deal with enron quickly to make sure that enron ' s trading operations and financial health did not deteriorate any further . ' ' if enron preserves the value of the marketing and trading company , then there is clearly value in the enron stock , ' ' he said .
preserving enron ' s investment - grade credit rating is crucial to keeping the trading operation afloat . to help convince moody ' s investors service and standard & poor ' s , the major rating agencies , that enron ' s rating should remain investment - grade , dynegy has agreed to inject $ 1 . 5 billion into enron immediately . still , on friday , both agencies cut enron ' s rating to just one notch above noninvestment grade , or junk , status , and both suggested that the rating could fall further .
so investors and creditors will watch carefully this week to see whether other energy companies continue trading with enron , and whether the merger stems the outflow of talented enron traders .
another question hanging over the deal is how easy it will be for dynegy to walk away if enron ' s finances turn out to be worse that enron has already disclosed .
the merger agreement , according to executives and investment bankers who shaped it , gives dynegy the opportunity to quit the deal without penalty if major new problems surface . but what exactly those terms are remains unknown .
so far , investors are giving dynegy the benefit of the doubt . the company ' s stock rose 17 percent on thursday and friday .
' ' the market believes chuck watson and the dynegy management team are very disciplined in the way they manage risks , ' ' mr . dietert said .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
heard on the street
basic principle of accounting tripped enron
by jonathan weil
staff reporter of the wall street journal
11 / 12 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones all six defendants have denied the sec ' s allegations . andersen itself wasn ' t named as a defendant and has said it believes the lawsuit against its partner was an unjustified action over questions of professional judgment .
under gaap , misstatements aren ' t immaterial simply because they fall beneath a numerical threshold , according to an sec accounting bulletin . under certain circumstances - - and it remains to be seen if they apply in the enron case - - the sec says intentional immaterial misstatements are unlawful . one reason is that when immaterial misstatements are combined with other misstatements , they can " render the financial statements taken as a whole to be materially misleading . "
enron , which paid andersen $ 25 million last year in audit fees and $ 27 million for other services , is one of andersen ' s biggest clients . so far , mr . tabolt , the andersen spokesman , says the sec hasn ' t told andersen it is a subject of the enron probe .
enron ' s disavowal of its previous financial statements also is a major embarrassment for the directors who sit on the enron board ' s audit committee , which serves as the overseer of enron ' s financial reporting , internal controls and compliance processes . among the committee members is wendy gramm , a former chairman of the commodity futures trading commission and the wife of u . s . sen . phil gramm ( r . , texas ) . ms . gramm also was a member of the audit committee of ibp inc . , a meatpacking company that earlier this year became engulfed in an accounting debacle that prompted an sec investigation and nearly derailed tyson foods ' since - completed plan to buy the company .
enron last week said its audit committee had been responsible for conducting annual reviews of the transactions between enron and the partnerships run by former chief financial officer andrew s . fastow . the company said its special committee is investigating " whether those controls and procedures were properly implemented . " through an enron spokeswoman , ms . gramm declined to comment .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
dynegy ' s enron deal faces uncertainties - - - potential antitrust worries or new enron liabilities could upset agreement
by john emshwiller and rebecca smith
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 12 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
dynegy inc . ' s proposed $ 8 . 85 billion takeover of enron corp . faces major uncertainties , ranging from possible opposition from regulators to potentially huge new liabilities and write - offs at enron .
the problem with regulators could come from antitrust worries about folding enron , the nation ' s biggest trader of natural gas and electricity , into dynegy , also a major energy trader . enron handles a quarter of all the natural gas and electricity traded in the u . s . the combined company - - which would be called dynegy inc . - - would have 22 , 000 megawatts of generating capacity and 25 , 000 miles of natural - gas pipelines , making it one of the largest companies in the nation in each of those categories . while enron and dynegy officials said that they expect the merger to garner the necessary government approvals , the review by regulators is expected to take months .
as for unpleasant financial surprises , enron has already produced a devastating stream of them over the past month , ranging from huge write - offs of assets and reductions of shareholder equity to major downward restatements of past earnings reports . much of this turmoil has been caused by enron ' s dealings with private partnerships run by its own officers . indeed , recent enron disclosures indicate that as much as half of the company ' s pretax earnings in recent years came from deals with these officer - related partnerships , raising further questions about the quality of enron ' s earnings and the potential for hundreds of millions of dollars of additional write - offs or restatements .
enron ' s partnership dealings have sparked more than a dozen shareholder lawsuits and a formal investigation by the securities and exchange commission . in a measure of the continuing concerns over enron ' s financial condition , both moody ' s investors service and standard & poor ' s once again downgraded enron ' s debt on friday , this time to just one level above noninvestment - grade , or " junk , " status . they also kept the company under review for possible additional downgrades and s & p put dynegy on the same status . a downgrade to junk status could force enron to come up with hundreds of millions of dollars in cash or stock to buttress some of its complicated financial transactions .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
analysts , competitors give dynegy - enron merger thumbs up
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones news service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones 323 - 658 - 3872 ; jessica . berthold @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
in the money : 2 stories in 1 : enron ceo sold compaq stk
by michael rapoport
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones news service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones 201 - 938 - 5976 ; michael . rapoport @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
usa : research alert - dynegy reiterated as " strong buy " .
11 / 12 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
new york , nov 12 ( reuters ) - ubs warburg on monday reiterated its " strong buy " rating on dynegy inc . after the power - trading firm entered into a deal on friday to buy its bigger rival enron corp . for some $ 9 billion in stock .
" if successfully executed , this transaction would yield the most widely recognized , respected and downright credible wholesale / retail energy merchant in the world , " ubs said in a research note .
but it added that pursuant to the deal , dynegy faces a daunting task of merging complex operations and employee bases . " we are not naive in underestimating the enormous challenge at hand , " ubs said .
it said , " we note that we would not be surprised to see dynegy put on review for downgrade by all ( credit - ) rating agencies , as would be typical in the initial stages of such a transaction " .
dynegy shares closed on friday at $ 38 . 76 on the new york stock exchange .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
usa : research alert - prudential raises enron to ' hold ' .
11 / 12 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
new york , nov 12 ( reuters ) - prudential securities on monday raised its investment rating on enron corp . to " hold " from " sell , " citing the proposed buyout of the company by its smaller power - trading rival dynegy inc . for some $ 9 billion in stock .
the brokerage said in a research note that it believes capital infusion from the deal will help enron fill near - term liquidity needs .
but it added that it is uncertain whether the deal will help prevent enron ' s energy - trading partners from reducing transactions and / or credit exposure over the next few months .
prudential said it is also concerned about strategic and cultural differences between dynegy and enron , and believes that the risk of losing talented traders before the transaction closes is high .
the buyout , announced on friday , calls for dynegy to swap 0 . 2685 share for each enron share , valuing enron at $ 10 . 41 a share . enron is also in the midst of an investigation by the securities and exchange commission over questionable business practices in the past . enron closed at $ 8 . 63 on the new york stock exchange on friday .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
uk press : enron investigating its own finances
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones international news
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones dow jones newswires ; 44 ( 0 ) 20 7842 9320
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron assets may be overvalued by 5 bln usd on balance sheet - report
11 / 12 / 2001
afx news
( c ) 2001 by afp - extel news ltd
new york ( afx ) - enron corp assets may be carried on the company ' s balance sheet at 5 bln usd more than their current value , the financial times reported , citing a person familiar with enron ' s thinking .
the overvaluation is likely to prompt a big writedown by enron ' s prospective new owner dynegy inc , a chevrontexaco inc affiliate , the newspaper said .
meanwhile , the wall street journal reported dynegy as saying it has a right to walk away from the agreed 8 . 85 bln usd deal if enron ' s additional legal and financial liabilities exceed 3 . 5 bln usd .
dynegy ' s proposed takeover faces possible opposition from regulators and the antitrust review of the deal is expected to take months , the journal added .
it noted that the combined company would have 22 , 000 megawatts of generating capacity and 25 , 000 miles of natural - gas pipelines , making it one of the largest companies in the us in each of those categories .
enron and dynegy officials have said that they expect the merger to garner t he necessary government approvals .
the ft said investors will today be briefed by dynegy on its decision to focus on enron ' s core gas pipeline business and wholesale energy trading operations .
investors are likely to quiz the executives closely on the potential losses from enron ' s web of financial dealings that led to the crisis of confidence on wall street and forced the merger with dynegy , it noted .
jms for more information and to contact afx : www . afxnews . com and www . afxpress . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron ' s sale could be thwarted by antitrust worries or liabilities
11 / 12 / 2001
dow jones business news
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
dynegy inc . ' s proposed $ 8 . 85 billion takeover of enron corp . faces major uncertainties , ranging from possible opposition from regulators to potentially huge new liabilities and write - offs at enron , monday ' s wall street journal reported .
the problem with regulators could come from antitrust worries about folding enron ( ene ) , the nation ' s biggest trader of natural gas and electricity , into dynegy ( dyn ) , also a major energy trader . enron handles a quarter of all the natural gas and electricity traded in the u . s . the combined company - - which would be called dynegy inc . - - would have 22 , 000 megawatts of generating capacity and 25 , 000 miles of natural - gas pipelines , making it one of the largest companies in the nation in each of those categories . while enron and dynegy officials said that they expect the merger to garner the necessary government approvals , the review by regulators is expected to take months .
as for unpleasant financial surprises , enron has already produced a devastating stream of them over the past month , ranging from huge write - offs of assets and reductions of shareholder equity to major downward restatements of past earnings reports . much of this turmoil has been caused by enron ' s dealings with private partnerships run by its own officers . indeed , recent enron disclosures indicate that as much as half of the company ' s pretax earnings in recent years came from deals with these officer - related partnerships , raising further questions about the quality of enron ' s earnings and the potential for hundreds of millions of dollars of additional write - offs or restatements .
enron ' s partnership dealings have sparked more than a dozen shareholder lawsuits and a formal investigation by the securities and exchange commission . in a measure of the continuing concerns over enron ' s financial condition , both moody ' s investors service and standard & poor ' s once again downgraded enron ' s debt on friday , this time to just one level above noninvestment - grade , or " junk , " status . they also kept the company under review for possible additional downgrades and s & p put dynegy on the same status . a downgrade to junk status could force enron to come up with hundreds of millions of dollars in cash or stock to buttress some of its complicated financial transactions .
copyright ( c ) 2001 dow jones & company , inc .
all rights reserved .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones source : world reporter ( tm )
wessex water could become a takeover target for thames water as troubles continue to engulf its u . s .
parent .
the bath - based utility , which employs around 1 , 500 people , is one of several uk businesses owned by enron , which last week was forced to slice more than $ 500 million ( gbp 354 million ) from its reported profits for the past five years .
enron ' s much - smaller rival dynergy is set to buy the troubled giant for $ 8 billion ( gbp 5 . 6 billion ) - although the plunging value of enron has become a sticking point .
enron , north america ' s biggest buyer and seller of electricity and natural gas , bought wessex for gbpl . 4 billion in 1998 .
at the time it said it planned to use wessex ' s expertise as the foundation stone of global water company azurix .
but few contracts have been secured as azurix has constantly found itself outbid by larger groups and the failure of the water business has only added to enron ' s troubles .
weekend speculation suggested thames water was poised to pounce on wessex as enron ' s financial position gets weaker .
thames water ' s german utility group owner rwe is keen to expand its water interests in the uk and has considered bidding for wessex in the past .
in august it was said to be running the slide rule over the firm to bolster its uk interests .
it acquired thames , the neighbouring water company to wessex , last year for gbp 4 . 3 billion .
a thames move for wessex would attract the attention of the industry regulator and previous similar takeover bids have been blocked .
but the fact that the two are neighbours - wessex supplies an area stretching from wiltshire to somerset and dorset , while thames goes from london to swindon - could weigh in the favour of any bid , along with enron ' s shaky financial position .
enron last week acknowledged it overstated earnings by about 20 per cent over the past four years and kept large amounts of debt off its balance sheets through business partnerships now under investigation by the u . s . securities and exchange commission .
the sec said enron ' s financial statements from 1997 through the first half of 2001 " should not be relied upon " and that outside businesses run by enron officials during that period should have been included in the company ' s earnings reports .
enron ' s debt ratings have also been reduced to one level above junk bond status and the company ' s long - term debt ratings remain under review for further downgrade .
on friday uk energy watchdog ofgem said it was monitoring how the financial crisis could impact on the uk market .
as well as owning wessex , enron has three power plants on teesside whose customers include suppliers , generators and distributors .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones microsoft sees reprieve
setting up these private partnerships and making deals with them ,
11 / 12 / 2001
business line ( the hindu )
fin . times info ltd - asia africa intel wire . business line ( the hindu ) copyright ( c ) 2001 kasturi & sons ltd . all rights res ' d
enron is fa