Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 09 / 01 - 11 / 10 / 01
rival to buy enron , top energy trader , after financial fall
the new york times , 11 / 10 / 01
regulators struggle with a marketplace created by enron
the new york times , 11 / 10 / 01
companies & finance international - dynegy agrees to $ 7 . 8 bn rescue bid for enron .
financial times , 11 / 10 / 01
companies & finance - international - accountancy put back under the spotlight .
financial times , 11 / 10 / 01
lex column - layed to rest .
financial times , 11 / 10 / 01
companies energy giant was forced to negotiating table after disclosing that it had overstated earnings
the washington post , 11 / 10 / 01
the nation news analysis a visionary fallen from grace
los angeles times , 11 / 10 / 01
dynegy timeline
houston chronicle , 11 / 10 / 01
power play / enron timeline
houston chronicle , 11 / 10 / 01
power play / enron had been a political heavyweight / critics decried influence of ken lay in white house
houston chronicle , 11 / 10 / 01
power play / sale suddenly switches office outlook downtown
houston chronicle , 11 / 10 / 01
power play / enron field name may fall as quickly as energy empire
houston chronicle , 11 / 10 / 01
market forces : worries over royal bank ' s enron exposure
the guardian , 11 / 10 / 01
dynegy snaps up enron for $ 9 . 5 bn
the times of london , 11 / 10 / 01
uk jobs on the line
daily mail , 11 / 10 / 01
dynegy to get prime downtown real estate in enron deal
associated press newswires , 11 / 10 / 01
enron india pwr unit sale faces review after dynegy deal
dow jones energy service , 11 / 10 / 01
talks to salvage multibillion dollar enron india project goes into third day
associated press newswires , 11 / 10 / 01
all eyes in electric industry on texas as deregulation nears
associated press newswires , 11 / 10 / 01
enron says it ' s too soon to quantify u . k . job cuts ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 10 / 01
dynegy to buy enron for $ 23 billion in stock , debt ( update 9 )
bloomberg , 11 / 09 / 01
dynegy announces $ 8 billion deal to buy larger rival enron
associated press newswires , 11 / 09 / 01
usa : update 3 - dynegy to acquire enron for $ 9 bln .
reuters english news service , 11 / 09 / 01
enron not california ' s largest power supplier , but merger could affect prices
associated press newswires , 11 / 09 / 01
dynegy - enron merger could mean name change for enron field
associated press newswires , 11 / 09 / 01
dynegy buy of enron valued at $ 23 b - $ 24 b with debt
dow jones news service , 11 / 09 / 01
chronology of enron corp . ' s history
associated press newswires , 11 / 09 / 01
fitch takes rating action on enron section a
rival to buy enron , top energy trader , after financial fall
by alex berenson and andrew ross sorkin
11 / 10 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2 new york times company
with its stock plunging and its finances in doubt , the world ' s largest energy trader , the enron corporation , agreed to be acquired yesterday by the rival dynegy inc . for about $ 9 billion in stock and the assumption of $ 13 billion in debt .
the deal is an extraordinary turnabout for enron , a houston - based company that had been a driving force behind electricity deregulation nationwide .
its chairman , kenneth l . lay , a big contributor to the republican party , provided political influence , while its former chief executive , jeffrey k . skilling , helped create markets for the trading of electricity and natural gas . but last winter , when california ' s effort to deregulate the electricity market led to soaring power prices and rolling blackouts , enron was the subject of much criticism and political anger .
recent disclosures of discrepancies in enron ' s financial statements and an investigation by the securities and exchange commission caused the shares to plunge this week to their lowest level in a decade . as other companies became wary of doing business with it , enron - - also facing a potential cash squeeze - - apparently had little choice but to find a buyer , and a deal was hastily cobbled together this week .
for critics who had complained about enron ' s market power and its dominance , the combination poses additional concerns . dynegy ' s acquisition of enron will be reviewed by state and federal agencies , led by the justice department and the federal energy regulatory commission . analysts said today that they expected scrutiny of the combined companies ' holdings in california , where dynegy owns power - generating plants and enron accounts for much of the trading of natural gas - - fuel for the state ' s electric power plants .
buying enron at a deep discount - - it has lost $ 60 billion in market value this year - - could make dynegy the dominant trader of electricity and natural gas . but the agreement carries big risks as well . along with enron ' s gas pipelines and high - technology trading floor , dynegy will take on enron ' s substantial debt and a web of complex transactions that enron has spun over the last decade .
in addition to the $ 13 billion in debt that enron carries on its books , it has guaranteed at least $ 4 billion in off - balance sheet loans , and the hidden debt could total as much as $ 10 billion , said carol coale , a stock analyst with prudential securities .
charles l . watson , dynegy ' s chairman and chief executive , said yesterday that dynegy could sort through enron ' s tangled finances . ' ' we know the company well , ' ' mr . watson said . ' ' it ' s not like we just started fresh . i ' m confident that it ' s as solid as we thought it was . ' '
the new company will combine enron ' s 25 , 000 - mile natural gas pipeline system with the large number of power plants that dynegy owns worldwide , as well as illinois power , a dynegy subsidiary that serves 650 , 000 customers in illinois . but its most important asset will be its trading desk . it will be the largest energy trader in the nation , trading more than twice as much power and natural gas as its closest competitors .
mr . watson said the company did not expect to sell significant properties and that the deal should pass regulatory scrutiny . ' ' there ' s really not a lot of overlap in assets , ' ' he said .
mr . watson and steve bergstrom , dynegy ' s president , will hold those positions in the new company , which will be called dynegy and remain in houston . mr . lay , who created enron in the mid - 1980 ' s , will not have any role in the combined company ' s daily operations . he has been asked to join its board but has not provided an answer . ' ' the last three weeks haven ' t been a lot of fun , ' ' he said .
in a statement announcing the agreement yesterday afternoon , mr . watson said he was confident that the merger would produce a strong new company . ' ' enron is the ideal strategic partner for dynegy , ' ' mr . watson said . ' ' we will keep a strong balance sheet and straightforward financial structure as key priorities . ' '
to shore up enron ' s finances , dynegy will immediately put $ 1 . 5 billion into enron through chevrontexaco , the giant oil company , which already owns 27 percent of dynegy . another billion dollars will be injected once the deal is completed .
investors appeared comfortable yesterday that dynegy could make the deal work . after falling $ 3 , to $ 33 , on wednesday , when the companies first said they were in discussions , dynegy rose $ 5 . 76 on thursday and yesterday to close the week at $ 38 . 76 .
' ' on paper , it works , ' ' ms . coale of prudential said . ' ' the combined company would be the leading trader , the market leader in most of their businesses . ' ' ms . coale , who has a sell rating on enron and a buy rating on dynegy , said she planned to keep her buy rating on dynegy .
as it works to have the deal approved , dynegy will have to persuade enron ' s traders to stay with the combined company . the pain of the stock ' s 90 percent plunge this year will not be equally shared . some enron employees have held onto their shares and seen their retirement accounts eviscerated . meanwhile , mr . lay , mr . skilling and other former and current executives sold hundreds of millions of dollars in enron stock in 2000 and this year .
the companies also have very different corporate cultures . dynegy emphasizes teamwork , while enron is more competitive , said ehud ronn , director of the center for energy finance education and research at the university of texas . even before the merger was announced , enron had lost some of its employees to other energy trading companies , mr . ronn said .
some investors and analysts say that the problems with enron ' s finances may extend beyond the partnerships that have been the subject of wall street ' s scrutiny the last month . james chanos , a short - seller who has been one of enron ' s most vocal critics , said there was increasing evidence that enron ' s energy trading operations were not as profitable as the company had said . ' ' there appears to be a culture at enron of aggressively booking profits and deferring or obscuring losses , ' ' mr . chanos said .
on thursday , enron said in a filing with the s . e . c that it had overstated its earnings by almost $ 600 million over the last five years . mr . chanos said more restatements were possible , noting that the filing disclosed partnerships had been used to hedge almost $ 1 billion in losses in 2000 and this year . so far , the losses from those partnerships remain off enron ' s financial statements , mr . chanos said .
enron ' s stock had been under pressure for most of this year , as the company ran up large losses with failed efforts to expand outside its core trading operation . in august , mr . skilling resigned as chief executive , and mr . lay resumed control of daily operations .
still , the company appeared financially sound until last month , when it disclosed that its shareholders ' equity , a measure of the company ' s value , dropped by $ 1 . 2 billion because of deals disclosed only hazily in its financial statements . the announcement unnerved investors , who wondered whether enron had found ways to inflate its profits and move debt off its balance sheet , and led the s . e . c . to begin an investigation .
mr . lay tried to reassure investors that enron ' s finances were in order and that its businesses remained strong . but the last three weeks have brought a series of damaging revelations about partnerships that enron formed with some of its top executives , including its former chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow .
with questions mounting , the major credit - rating agencies began to downgrade enron ' s debt , putting additional pressure on the company . if enron ' s debt rating falls below investment grade , it would be forced to repay $ 3 . 3 billion in loans that it had guaranteed .
to strengthen its balance sheet and bolster its stock , enron turned to big investors like warren e . buffett in search of billions of dollars of financing . when the financing did not quickly appear , its stock fell further .
by this week , some major energy traders were refusing to extend credit to enron , worrying that the company would be unable to make good on its contracts . the mirant corporation , an atlanta - based power plant owner and electricity trader , sharply curtailed its trading with enron this week . ' ' we ' re trading with them on a very limited basis , ' ' said james peters , a mirant spokesman . ' ' it ' s not business as usual . ' '
on wednesday , enron ' s stock fell as low as $ 7 a share , its lowest level in more than a decade . that day , news of the enron and dynegy talks leaked out .
by late wednesday , the boards of the two companies had tentatively agreed to a deal . but dynegy refused to go ahead until it learned whether enron ' s credit rating would remain investment grade and was comfortable with the effect of the deal on its own rating . the deal moved forward yesterday after dynegy was assured enron ' s debt was not in danger of being lowered to junk status soon after the deal was announced , according to company officials .
dynegy and enron had provided standard & poor ' s and moody ' s investors service , the main credit agencies , with statements showing them what a combined company might look like and asked the ratings agencies for an expedited review of the transaction , mr . watson said .
under the deal , enron shareholders will receive 0 . 2685 share of dynegy stock for each enron share , or $ 9 . 80 based on dynegy ' s closing price on thursday . enron ' s stock gained 22 cents yesterday , to $ 8 . 63 .
' ' i never thought our stock price would be at this level , ' ' mr . lay said yesterday .
enron ' s shareholders will own only 36 percent of the combined company , and dynegy will name at least 11 members of the company ' s 14 - member board .
if the deal falls apart , enron or dynegy will have to pay a breakup fee of $ 350 million .
to protect dynegy ' s and chevrontexaco ' s cash infusion , the money will go to an enron unit that owns the northern natural gas pipeline . if the merger is not completed , dynegy will have the right to buy the unit .
an army of bankers and lawyers advised the companies . lehman brothers inc . acted as financial adviser and baker botts and akin , gump , strauss , hauer & feld acted as counsel for dynegy . j . p . morgan & company and salomon smith barney acted as financial advisers for enron , and vinson & elkins and weil gotshal & manges acted as the company ' s counsel . pillsbury winthrop served as counsel to chevrontexaco .
chart : ' ' a marriage of strength and weakness ' ' a merger of enron and dynegy would bring together two of the country ' s biggest energy companies - - and save enron from potential collapse . graph tracks the weekly closes of enron shares from 1999 through 2001 . top north american gas marketers sales , of billion cubic feet per day * enron : 24 . 6 reliant : 13 . 2 duke energy : 12 . 8 bp : 12 . 3 mirant : 11 . 8 dynegy : 10 . 9 top north american power marketers sales , of million megawatt hours * enron : 212 . 5 american electric power : 134 . 5 duke energy : 118 . 1 reliant resources : 86 . 1 pg simmons natural gas week ) ( pg . c 2 )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
regulators struggle with a marketplace created by enron
by jeff gerth with richard a . oppel jr .
11 / 10 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
washington , nov . 9 - - for years , the enron corporation used its political muscle to build the markets in which it thrived , pushing relentlessly on capitol hill and in bureaucratic backwaters to deregulate the nation ' s natural gas and electricity businesses .
its achievement , as one enron executive said today , in creating a ' ' regulatory black hole ' ' fit nicely with what he called the company ' s ' ' core management philosophy , which was to be the first mover into a market and to make money in the initial chaos and lack of transparency . ' '
now , wall street ' s dissatisfaction with enron ' s secretive ways has delivered the company into the arms of its much smaller houston rival , dynegy inc . , in a deal worth about $ 9 billion in stock and the assumption of $ 13 billion in debt . the combination of the two companies , energy experts and lawmakers said today , poses a novel set of challenges for regulators still struggling to grasp the complexities of the marketplace that enron invented .
' ' we ' re in a supersonic - speed era of electronic trading with a horse - and - buggy - era regulatory system to protect consumers , ' ' said representative edward j . markey , a massachusetts democrat who has devised legislation to close the regulatory gap .
dynegy ' s acquisition of enron is expected to be reviewed by numerous state and federal agencies , led by the justice department , the federal trade commission and the federal energy regulatory commission .
analysts said today that sharp scrutiny would be given to the combined companies ' holdings in california , where dynegy owns generating plants and enron controls a large part of the market for trading natural gas - - the fuel for a big share of the state ' s electric power plants .
' ' dynegy would now have a greater ability to take the dominant position in gas and raise the price of electricity , ' ' said frank wolak , a professor of economics at stanford university .
mr . wolak , a consultant to the justice department on a 1999 antitrust case that led to limits on another merger of electricity and natural gas companies in southern california , said he was skeptical that regulators were up to the task of reviewing today ' s deal .
the transaction ' ' is something the department of justice needs to look at , and they are going to have a hard time looking at , ' ' mr . wolak said . ' ' and it ' s beyond the ability of the f . e . r . c . to look at . ' '
pat wood - - named chairman of the federal energy commission earlier this year with the backing of kenneth l . lay , the chairman of enron - - acknowledged in an interview today that the agency had ' ' a long way to go ' ' in matching the sophistication of the companies it regulates .
but he said that the commission had made great strides in grappling with the new risk management techniques pioneered by enron , dynegy and other energy companies . it is hiring more experts , he said , adopting more restrictive rules on how much ' ' market power ' ' one party can control and requiring more disclosure of certain energy transactions .
in an interview this evening , charles l . watson , the chairman of dynegy , said he did not believe that regulators reviewing the deal with enron would require the sale of any assets . ' ' we haven ' t really identified any pitfalls that require any sort of asset divestiture , ' ' he said . ' ' there ' s not really any overlap . ' '
a senior executive at one of enron ' s largest energy - trading rivals disagreed . ' ' i don ' t think this deal gets through unscathed , ' ' he said today . ' ' i ' m sure the justice department and the f . t . c . will look closely at the pretty substantial concentration of market power these companies will have in the energy - trading area . ' '
enron is mainly a trader of natural gas and electricity - - indeed , the biggest player in both those markets - - and it also owns a network of gas pipelines . dynegy processes and sells natural gas and generates and sells electricity . each company owns a local electric utility , too : dynegy owns illinois power in decatur , ill . , while enron owns portland general electric in portland , ore . , but last month announced plans to sell it to another oregon utility .
for a decade , as it transformed itself from a gas pipeline operator into the nation ' s biggest energy trader , enron enjoyed unalloyed lobbying success in washington and the enthusiastic backing of wall street .
in the early months of the bush administration , mr . lay - - whose company was one of the biggest financial backers of george w . bush ' s presidential campaign - - played a prominent , and some said unusual , role in helping the white house pick nominees to the federal energy commission . enron executives met with vice president dick cheney , whose energy task force backed many of the deregulatory initiatives pushed by mr . lay .
now , ' ' the company has become a pariah , ' ' an enron executive said today . ' ' the bush administration doesn ' t want to have anything to do with us . ' '
the problems began with the energy crisis in california , where enron ' s outspoken defense of deregulation , even more than its electricity trading activities , made the company a favorite whipping boy of politicians and consumer advocates . in the financial markets , meanwhile , enron ' s confusing disclosures , tolerated when its stock was soaring , drew disdain as the calming of the energy storms in california and other parts of the country beat the shares down , starting last spring .
' ' enron fell victim to their own inconsistencies on transparency , ' ' mr . wolak said . as california officials sought to understand why energy prices had soared out of control , he said , enron ' s ' ' view was that we want everybody ' s data , but if you want ours , get a subpoena . ' '
energy executives and regulators said that sort of arrogance had long marked enron ' s attitude about government oversight .
electricity sales had for decades been the job of local utility companies , operating as monopolies and selling power at regulated rates within their service areas . a few entrepreneurs , led by mr . lay , conceived a different model in which power could be sold by generators or middlemen to big corporate users or utilities in faraway regions , at whatever price the market would bear .
in the early 1990 ' s , congress - - under heavy lobbying by enron - - passed legislation that began to open up electricity sales to marketers . before long , enron became one of the first companies to receive government approval to sell electricity at market rates . the market for interstate sales of natural gas had been freed up a few years earlier , and critics complained that traders like enron were gleaning their profits by stoking volatility in gas prices .
in the mid - 1990 ' s , independent gas producers backed legislation in congress to allow the creation of a co - operative marketing organization , which , they hoped , would have helped stabilize prices .
raymond plank , the chairman of the apache corporation , a gas producer based in houston , said that the big gas marketing and trading companies , including enron , successfully lobbied to kill the plan , leaving prices as volatile as ever .
' ' it was a great concept , ' ' mr . plank said . ' ' we could have headed off the problems we have today . ' '
enron ' s final lobbying success came last year . with a strong push from the company ' s lobbyists , congress passed futures trading legislation that exempted internet energy trading platforms like enrononline , the industry leader , from oversight by the commodity futures trading commission . enron takes the other side of trades on its exchange . in traditional markets like the new york mercantile exchange , which remain subject to oversight , the exchange acts as a middleman between buyers and sellers .
under mr . watson , dynegy has been less of a pathbreaker than enron , and though california politicians denounced it , too , as a profiteer during the energy crisis , most analysts say it has been less aggressive than enron in both its business practices and its lobbying .
indeed , the rival energy - trading executive today predicted ' ' a huge culture clash ' ' as the houston neighbors merge . ' ' blood will flow in houston over the integration of the trading operation , ' ' he said .
but regulators may find dynegy easier to deal with .
earlier this year , the federal energy commission asked for comments on whether it should tighten scrutiny of dealings between natural gas pipelines and energy - trading shops owned by the same company .
enron wondered what all the bother was . ' ' would stricter rules prevent real affiliate abuse that current rules do not , ' ' it wrote in a regulatory filing , ' ' or would they instead merely restrict the activities of some of the more successful participants in the marketplace ? ' '
dynegy , by contrast , painted a grim picture and invited regulators to crack down . ' ' abuses abound , ' ' it said , ' ' because of financial windfalls , difficulty of detection , lengthy investigations and increased complexity of the market . ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies in return chevrontexaco will be granted rights over $ 1 . 5 bn of dynegy stock .
jp morgan chase and citigroup demanded similar security for a $ 1 bn loan extended this month .
moody ' s investors service cut its rating on enron ' s senior unsecured debt yesterday morning from baa 2 to baa 3 - just one notch above junk status . any deeper downgrade would have forced enron to sell stock to cover about $ 3 . 3 bn of obligations , and could have deterred dynegy . moody ' s kept the ratings under review for further downgrades , given " the potential for increased margin requirements from counterparties " .
however , the agency said it would treat a substantial capital injection as " a stabilising event " . the deal is likely to face intense regulatory scrutiny , given the large share the combined companies would have in the energy markets .
the bid represents a reversal of fortune for enron , which will effectively be humbled by its smaller houston rival . however , some analysts expressed reservations , as enron faces a securities and exchange commission inquiry into off - balance sheet transactions , and a restatement of its accounts has yet to clear up questions about the true state of its financial dealings .
carol coale , of prudential securities , said : " we believe that either dynegy had material exposure to enron ' s trading contracts or that it is trying to rescue its competitor by saving the liquidity in the commodities markets . "
reporting by andrew edgecliffe - johnson and robert clow in new york , sheila mcnulty in houston and peter thal larsen in london . . see lex .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies & finance - international - accountancy put back under the spotlight .
by adrian michaels and richard waters .
11 / 10 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
arthur andersen , enron ' s auditor , is understood to have approved the controversial off - balance sheet arrangements that lie at the heart of the energy company ' s decision to overhaul its accounts earlier this week .
however , in at least one case the auditor may not have been given full information , while the involvement in the disputed transactions of four people employed by enron has only recently come to light . andersen has already been hit by lawsuits from enron shareholders filed in oregon and harris county , texas - a popular venue among plaintiffs ' lawyers given its history of big jury awards .
the legal actions are the latest blow to an auditing profession still reeling in the aftermath of a series of accounting scandals that have blown up in recent years . on wednesday , waste management said andersen would pay $ 20 m to settle a suit brought by shareholders in the trash hauler alleging professional malpractice . the securities and exchange commission has already agreed a $ 7 m settlement with andersen over the alleged audit fraud .
the enron actions could also turn out to be one of the first tests of new auditor independence rules set by the sec . the energy company paid andersen $ 25 m for its audit last year and $ 27 m for other services .
an andersen spokesman refused to comment on whether the auditor had vetted the complex off - balance sheet arrangements used by enron to manage its trading risks and offload debt . however , he added : " we do help companies understand accounting rules and how to apply them . "
in a regulatory filing on thursday , enron indicated that its decision to restate its accounts to include two off - balance companies was based on " current information " , suggesting that full details had not been available before .
however , a third accounting change was based on a new " assessment " , enron said , raising questions about the auditor ' s earlier judgement .
under the previous commissioner arthur levitt , the sec attacked companies that indulged in " earnings management " and accountants who suffered from conflicts of interest between audit and consulting work . the accounting firms say audit and consulting work can co - exist .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
lex column - layed to rest .
11 / 10 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
being in the business , dynegy should have a better idea than other possible buyers of what it is taking on . presumably it has been given a fuller and franker explanation of enron ' s off - balance - sheet mess than its investors , but it can scarcely have been able to carry out what normally counts as due diligence .
moody ' s decision and s & p ' s indecision meant enron kept its investment grade and seems to have got the deal done . do ratings agencies really provide independent analysis at these times ? if dynegy injects $ 1 . 5 bn of cash up front , courtesy of chevron texaco and secured on the pipeline assets , that averts the immediate crisis . an exchange ratio of 0 . 27 would value enron ' s stock at $ 8 bn . at about $ 10 . 67 a share that is a 27 per cent premium , but more pertinently compares with $ 34 on the eve of the october earnings call and $ 83 on new year ' s day . there are no rivals for this year ' s prize for shareholder value destruction . others have gone , but did ken lay , enron chief executive , know what was going on ? whatever the answer , it reflects poorly on him .
the merger raises antitrust questions . dynegy might be a fifth of enron ' s size , but it is the second biggest energy trader . but while enron has few friends in the public markets it still has some in high places . dynegy ' s offer puts a floor beneath enron ' s share price . paying bottom dollar provides some insurance for its shareholders . as more emerges on the financial structure and the state of the core trading business , the question is whether those who declined the opportunity start to take an interest or pat themselves on the back .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies & finance international - company troubles leave houston with a problem .
by sheila mcnulty .
11 / 10 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
companies continental has had to lay off 12 , 000 employees ; and energy trader enron has gone from being the leader of houston ' s business community to its biggest liability .
the fourth most populous city in the us is reeling from the latest demise among its corporate citizens .
" it ' s a body blow , " says charlie savino , executive vice - president of the greater houston partnership , a business organisation .
enron is not only one of the city ' s biggest employers ; it has led the redevelopment of downtown houston , making it somewhere pleasant to live for the first time in decades .
at the centre of its efforts is the enron field , which the company financed to bring professional baseball - and its fans - back into the city centre .
on the periphery are enron ' s contributions to houston ' s social development .
the company matches all employee donations made to non - profit organisations , for up to $ 15 , 000 per employee , per year .
it also makes donations to non - profit organisations for which its employees offer their time .
kenneth lay , enron chief executive , has long been the " go - to guy " to get something done in houston .
enron ' s status brought houston status ; as the biggest energy trader in the us , it made the city the centre of energy trading . enrononline , its internet trading platform , has drawn some of the brightest minds to the city to work on what has become the world ' s biggest web - based transaction system .
enron was so secure in its standing that it was building a new 40 - storey office building adjoining its 50 - storey tower .
beside that , bulldozers and cranes have been putting the finishing touches to a massive new parking garage .
employees had just started to move into the new towers when a series of disclosures about enron ' s financial position began to undermine the company and send investors fleeing for cover .
enron staff , once known for being both brilliant and arrogant enough to prove it , are coping with their dramatic reversal in status in a wide variety of ways .
as they left work yesterday , many brushed by in their smart - casual polo shirts and khakis , refusing to say a word about what was unfolding .
one man , looking exhausted , braved a grin and said : " just keep smiling . the world goes on . companies go through problems all the time , just l