Subject: enron mentions
dynegy and enron shares get a boost as acquisition plan is met with optimism
the wall street journal , 11 / 13 / 01
gas pipeline is prominent as dynegy seeks enron
the new york times , 11 / 13 / 01
suitor for enron receives approval from wall st .
the new york times , 11 / 13 / 01
share boost for dynegy good news
houston chronicle , 11 / 13 / 01
dynegy , enron stock prices get boost energy : even as experts warn of regulatory hurdles , investors back proposed merger .
los angeles times , 11 / 13 / 01
enron shares enriched ken lay before flaming out : graef crystal
bloomberg , 11 / 13 / 01
companies & finance the americas - dynegy deal brings balance back to markets .
financial times , 11 / 13 / 01
global investing - spreading the risks - and the rewards .
financial times , 11 / 13 / 01
comment firm gets rights to key pipeline
chicago tribune , 11 / 13 / 01
uk : innogy restarts energy trading with enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 13 / 01
enron , dynegy shares climb industry observers give takeover bid mixed reviews
the globe and mail , 11 / 13 / 01
city - city comment - enron ' s end provides textbook disaster study .
the daily telegraph , 11 / 13 / 01
stocks steady after scare
the washington post , 11 / 13 / 01
tata power , bses keen to buy 85 pct stake in enron unit dabhol power - idbi
afx news , 11 / 13 / 01
india ' s tata group , bses keen to acquire 85 percent of enron india unit
agence france - presse , 11 / 13 / 01
bses seeks mega project status for dabhol
business standard , 11 / 13 / 01
dynegy ' s plan to acquire enron in deal valued at $ 10 . 12 billion boosts shares
dow jones business news , 11 / 12 / 01
usa : dynegydirect , enrononline to trade separately for now .
reuters english news service , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy bid for enron doesn ' t calm credit concerns , traders say
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
usa : update 1 - eott energy q 3 net up , sees weaker 2001 profits .
reuters english news service , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy to ask j . p . morgan , salomon to reduce $ 90 mln enron fee
bloomberg , 11 / 12 / 01
dynegy and enron shares get a boost as acquisition plan is met with optimism
by john r . emshwiller
staff reporter of the wall street journal
11 / 13 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 4
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
the shares of enron corp . and dynegy inc . both rose in heavy trading as investors began trying to digest the possible risks and rewards of dynegy ' s plan to acquire enron in a stock swap with a current value of $ 10 . 12 billion .
in calls and meetings with analysts yesterday , dynegy chairman chuck watson and enron chairman kenneth lay continued talking up the deal that was announced late friday . " we are confident this is good strategically and financially for dynegy and enron , " said mr . watson , who will serve as chairman and chief executive of the combined entity , to be called dynegy inc .
while the proposed combination faces months of review by government agencies and gives dynegy possible opportunities to cancel the deal , investors ' initial reaction to the merger announcement was positive . as of 4 p . m . in new york stock exchange composite trading , dynegy shares were at $ 44 . 31 , up $ 5 . 55 , or 14 % . also on the big board , enron was at $ 9 . 24 , up 7 . 1 % , or 61 cents . both companies were among the most actively traded issues .
under terms of the proposed acquisition , dynegy would give 0 . 2685 of its shares for each enron share . based on dynegy ' s stock price yesterday , this formula values enron stock at $ 11 . 90 each . enron has about 850 million shares outstanding .
some people raised cautionary notes yesterday . moody ' s investors service placed dynegy on review for a possible credit - ratings downgrade . standard & poor ' s made a similar move on friday . moody ' s said that while it saw positive elements to the proposed combination , it also believed " the financial and business risks associated with the transaction could negatively impact dynegy ' s credit fundamentals . "
prudential securities analyst carol coale , who counts herself a fan of dynegy , also worries that enron ' s enormous problems could be a drag on the combined entity . " i don ' t want the dynegy folks to get into something that ' s not good for the company , " she said .
as reported , enron in the past several weeks has seen its stock price and standing in the investment community plummet , largely as the result of large - scale transactions it did with partnerships headed by enron officers . those transactions have produced hundreds of millions of dollars of write - offs and restatements in the past month . they are being investigated by the securities and exchange commission and have helped spawn more than a dozen shareholder lawsuits .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
market place
gas pipeline is prominent as dynegy seeks enron
by floyd norris
11 / 13 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
dynegy has negotiated a great takeover . and it may end up buying enron , too .
as part of its planned acquisition of enron , dynegy will get the crown jewel even if the overall deal falls apart . in return for its $ 1 . 5 billion investment today , dynegy has the right to acquire northern natural gas , a pipeline system that is probably worth more .
as dynegy stock soared 14 percent yesterday , enron ' s lagged behind , rising just 7 percent . [ page cl 3 . ]
that widened the spread - - the profit a trader could lock in by buying enron and selling dynegy short , assuming the deal goes through - - to 28 percent .
the big premium probably reflects more than the fact that this deal will not close for many months . it is at least a possibility that dynegy will renegotiate the price , or even walk away , as it learns more about enron ' s business .
not that chuck watson , chairman and chief executive of dynegy , was threatening to do any such thing . in a talk to analysts yesterday , and in a later interview , he was extraordinarily upbeat about enron ' s trading business even as he dismissed many of the company ' s diversifications as failures whose poor performance might have been obscured by fancy accounting .
full details of the agreement between the companies will not be known until the merger agreement is filed with the securities and exchange commission today or tomorrow . but it appears that if the agreement falls apart for any reason , dynegy has the right to keep the pipeline without putting up any additional cash .
speaking to analysts yesterday , rob doty , chief financial officer at dynegy , said the company was paying about seven or eight times the cash flow of the pipeline business .
walking away from the deal might cost dynegy $ 350 million if it could not cite any material adverse change in enron ' s business , as provided in the merger agreement . but one way to look at this deal is that dynegy is spending $ 1 . 85 billion for the pipeline and a right to get the rest of enron on the agreed terms .
mr . watson said he was confident that things would not go wrong .
' ' we have comfort there is not another shoe to drop , ' ' he said . ' ' if there is no shoe , this is a phenomenally good transaction . ' '
in presentations to analysts , dynegy officials said they expected the company ' s earnings per share to grow by at least 90 cents a year even before considering cost reductions as the two businesses are merged . that arithmetic was based on assumptions that enron could deliver at least 75 percent of the $ 2 a share in pro - forma earnings that wall street had been forecasting for next year . those forecasts had stayed the same even as enron ' s business collapsed .
the bullish case for the merger is that enron ' s real profits were there and that the financial maneuvering did not cover up far deeper problems .
mr . watson promised that more details would be disclosed about the partnerships that were created by enron and traded with it , providing a substantial part of the company ' s profits in 2000 .
enron ' s need to make a deal quickly - - almost any deal - - was emphasized by standard & poor ' s , the bond rating service . in a conference call yesterday , ron barone , an analyst with s . & p . , said that without the takeover , enron ' s rating would have been cut to low bb or high b . those ratings are not even at the high end of junk , and a company like enron , which depends on others being willing to treat it as a trusted trading partner , needs an investment grade rating . its current s . & p . rating is bbb minus , the lowest investment grade rating .
that means enron could not continue as an independent business . and it means that should dynegy decide to renegotiate , enron would be in a very poor bargaining position unless it had another bidder .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
the markets
suitor for enron receives approval from wall st .
by alex berenson
11 / 13 / 2001
the new york times
page 13 , column 1
c . 2001 new york times company
wall street found nothing but good news in dynegy ' s $ 9 billion takeover of the enron corporation yesterday .
three days after dynegy , an energy marketing and trading company based in houston , agreed to take over enron , its giant crosstown rival , dynegy executives came to new york to assure investors that the deal would sharply increase their company ' s profits . they met a receptive audience .
dynegy stock closed yesterday at $ 44 . 31 , up $ 5 . 55 , or 14 . 3 percent . since last wednesday , when news of a possible takeover emerged , dynegy ' s stock has risen more than one - third . enron closed at $ 9 . 24 , up 61 cents , or 7 . 1 percent .
after some initial uncertainty about the takeover , investors appear to have accepted dynegy ' s view that the deal will give it a lucrative franchise in trading natural gas and electricity . enron ' s stock fell almost 80 percent in the weeks leading up to the deal as enron said it had overstated its earnings by almost $ 600 million since 1997 and forced out several top executives .
but chuck watson , dynegy ' s chairman , told investors repeatedly yesterday that enron ' s problems were mainly a result of failed expansion efforts . he largely dismissed the concerns of some short - sellers and analysts that enron might be hiding losses at its core energy trading operations .
' ' there ' s nothing wrong with enron ' s business , ' ' mr . watson said in an interview at the waldorf - astoria hotel after making a lunchtime presentation to analysts and investors . ' ' the people in it ought to be really upset that for the last several years , they have produced earnings and cash that have been invested in other businesses that are not making money . ' '
enron ' s immediate problem was a crisis of confidence , which could have caused other companies to stop trading with it , mr . watson said . a $ 1 . 5 billion cash infusion from dynegy should restore the confidence of enron ' s business partners and keep enron stable until the takeover is complete , he said . to bolster enron further , j . p . morgan chase and citigroup may each invest an additional $ 250 million , executives close to the deal said . the potential investments by j . p . morgan chase and citigroup were reported yesterday in the wall street journal .
mr . watson said dynegy would also move quickly to assuage enron employees who are angry that kenneth l . lay , enron ' s chairman , and other top executives sold hundreds of millions of dollars in stock in 2000 and this year as enron ' s shares plunged . ' ' right now , there ' s some animosity over there , ' ' he said .
many employees at enron will get new grants of stock options when the acquisition is completed , he said . the company said it expected the deal to close by the end of the third quarter of next year , after extensive reviews from federal and state energy regulators and the department of justice .
mr . watson predicted that the deal would lift dynegy ' s earnings by 90 cents or more a share next year , to more than $ 3 . 45 a share .
analysts backed that view yesterday . ' ' investments in noncore business distracted the attention of management and also took up capital , ' ' said thomas hamlin , an analyst at wachovia securities . mr . hamlin said he believed that dynegy had obtained enron , which reported more than $ 100 billion in revenue last year , for a bargain price .
' ' it ' s not too often you get to take out the no . 7 fortune 500 company and double your earnings in the meantime , ' ' he said . ' ' my guess is the stock is worth $ 70 per share . ' '
the deal could increase dynegy ' s earnings by $ 1 to $ 2 a share next year , said christopher ellinghaus , an analyst at the williams capital group .
' ' that ' s a whopper , ' ' he said . ' ' it ' s a very good deal financially , certainly should be a good deal strategically , and provides some immediate balance - sheet backstop for enron . ' '
mr . lay said in an interview that enron had been forced to sell itself because of ' ' the relentlessness of all the articles and the shorts . ' '
' ' we realized that we needed to do something to stabilize the ship , ' ' he said . ' ' a good company was being badly tarnished . ' '
photo : in houston , the headquarters building of dynegy inc . , the energy and marketing trading company , which is in a $ 9 billion takeover of enron . ( asociated press )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
nov . 13 , 2001
houston chronicle
share boost for dynegy good news
saving enron trading called key handicap
by laura goldberg and david ivanovich
copyright 2001 houston chronicle
although investors monday cheered dynegy ' s planned acquisition of enron corp . , dynegy must still negotiate a series of potential roadblocks to pull off a successful merger .
among them : ensuring that enron ' s core energy - trading business , suffering before the merger announcement , stays healthy . negative news on that front quickly surfaced monday as at least two traders said they still plan extremely limited business with enron .
dynegy must also manage any unexpected disclosures about enron ' s financial performance and investment partnerships , convince enron ' s traders and other key employees to stick around , and mesh different corporate cultures .
investors were optimistic in dynegy ' s abilities as shares in the company traded up $ 5 . 55 to close at $ 44 . 31 monday , while shares in enron ended the day up 61 cents at $ 9 . 24 .
enron has been under siege since oct . 16 when it reported a $ 35 million loss and $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity tied to business dealings with investment partnerships run by its then - chief financial officer .
since then , the securities and exchange commission started an investigation of enron , a slew of shareholder lawsuits were filed and enron ' s stock price plummeted .
a new shareholder suit filed monday included dynegy on its list of defendants .
last week , enron said it was restating its earnings back to 1997 to include losses related to a number of complex partnerships , including several being investigated by the sec . it said it was correcting almost $ 600 million worth of mistakes .
just how close enron was to a collapse remains unclear . one industry source believes enron had been pushed " to the brink " and would have been done for if it had been unable to reach agreement with dynegy last week .
but ron barone , a credit analyst with standard & poor ' s , doesn ' t think enron ' s condition was so desperate .
" we clearly didn ' t see this as an imminent bankruptcy or imminent default , but it is something that could have eroded over time . . . in a fairly short time . "
friday , enron ' s long - term debt rating was downgraded to one notch above investment - grade status by both moody ' s investors service and s & p .
enron is the largest natural gas and electricity trader in the nation , accounting for about 25 percent of all transactions . its collapse would have meant the loss of much liquidity in the trading market , making trades more difficult and prices more volatile , industry experts said .
dynegy announced a deal friday to buy enron at a fire - sale price of almost $ 9 billion in stock , plus the assumption of about $ 13 billion in debt and $ 2 billion in preferred stock . the merger is expected to close , barring holdups from regulators , in six to nine months .
as part of the agreement , dynegy stakeholder chevrontexaco is giving dynegy $ 1 . 5 billion , which is to be infused today to help shore up enron ' s liquidity and preserve its trading franchise .
some of enron ' s former trading partners are still steering clear of the giant .
to facilitate transactions , the various energy trading firms extend credit to one another . those agreements are contingent upon a partner maintaining an adequate rating .
if the credit rating firms had downgraded enron ' s debt to junk status , its trading operation would have been devastated , industry officials said .
as details of enron ' s questionable financial dealings have been revealed , enron ' s trading partners have been scrambling to reduce their exposure .
kansas city , mo . - based aquila energy marketing corp . , for instance , has been ratcheting down its activity with enron , company spokesman al butkus said .
by the end of last week , aquila ' s exposure to enron was " insignificant , " butkus said . " and after all that was revealed on friday and the downgrading of the credit , we are now at an even lower level . "
atlanta - based mirant has likewise reduced its exposure and is only doing a limited amount of business with enron .
some larger players , however , continue doing deals with the company .
" reliant energy has consistently been trading with enron through its difficulties , albeit with a heightened sense of caution , " said shahid malik , president of houston - based reliant energy ' s trading operation .
charlotte , n . c . - based duke energy ' s exposure stands at $ 100 million .
" we ' re continuing the way we have been , " said duke spokesman terry francisco .
john olson , an analyst with sanders morris harris in houston , predicted it would take the traders some time to digest the merger deal .
" i think people will increasingly come back to enron just as soon as the $ 1 . 5 billion changes hands , " he said .
traders still have incentives to do business with enron even though it ' s being sold , as it has a wider variety of products than some of its competitors and its enrononline internet trading operation is regarded as superior .
on a conference call with investors and analysts monday morning , dynegy and enron executives fielded a variety of questions about the merger but refused comment on a wall street journal report that j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup are considering a $ 500 million investment in enron .
analysts remain worried that new and troubling surprises will emerge about enron ' s finances , including those that could call into question whether its core trading business is as advertised .
dynegy executives aren ' t expecting any such disclosures , but took a conservative approach to calculating merger benefits .
" i believe we have adequately bracketed the downside , " said chuck watson , dynegy ' s chairman and chief executive .
even with a worst - case scenario , dynegy still found a " tremendous amount of economic value " in the merger , said watson , who will take the same roles after the merger .
the deal , dynegy said , will add 90 cents to 95 cents per share in earnings for current dynegy shareholders . and that ' s before cost savings that are expected to run $ 400 million to $ 500 million a year .
dynegy detailed two escape clauses in the merger deal . for one , if the amount of legal and shareholder claims enron must pay out is greater than $ 3 . 5 billion , it can be called off .
enron and dynegy officials also said they will do whatever it takes to keep their key people . but will traders jump ship ? " oh , yeah i ' m sure they will , " the industry source said .
jeff dietert , an analyst with simmons financial desk
dynegy , enron stock prices get boost energy : even as experts warn of regulatory hurdles , investors back proposed merger .
nancy rivera brooks
times staff writer
11 / 13 / 2001
los angeles times
home edition
c - 1
copyright 2001 / the times mirror company
investors and analysts applauded the proposed $ 9 - billion merger of dynegy inc . and enron corp . , boosting the stock price of both houston - based energy companies on monday even as some experts warned of regulatory hurdles .
dynegy and enron executives courted wall street by offering assurances that the combined company , to be called dynegy , would be more financially conservative and easier to understand than enron has been .
dynegy chief executive charles l . watson said the merger would immediately sweeten earnings for the combined company and that he remains " 90 % certain " that no more nasty surprises will emerge from a continuing internal investigation of enron ' s cloudy finances .
" this is an exciting business combination . . . that will fuse two groups of talented , dedicated people who share a passion for their work , " said watson , who would be chairman and chief executive of the new company .
dynegy ' s stock leaped $ 5 . 55 to close at $ 44 . 31 on the new york stock exchange while enron ' s stock increased 61 cents to $ 9 . 24 .
the proposed transaction , revealed late friday after days of rumors , marks an extraordinary humbling of enron and its powerful chairman and ceo , kenneth l . lay . enron is the world ' s largest energy trader , but a loss of investor confidence and a severe cash crunch have pushed it into the arms of a competitor that is one - quarter its size .
under the deal , enron shareholders would get 0 . 2685 dynegy share for each share of enron stock . based on the $ 38 . 76 close friday of dynegy ' s stock on the new york stock exchange , the deal valued enron ' s stock at $ 10 . 40 a share - - or $ 11 . 89 a share based on monday ' s close . dynegy would convert 850 million enron shares , the company said .
dynegy said monday that its deal is worth about $ 24 billion in all : the $ 9 - billion stock swap and the assumption of $ 2 billion of preferred stock and $ 13 billion in debt . enron would get an immediate cash infusion from chevrontexaco corp . , which owns nearly 27 % of dynegy , with an additional $ 1 billion to follow when the deal closes .
enron ' s stock fell 80 % after a series of disturbing financial disclosures that began oct . 16 with a surprise third - quarter loss tied to failed investments in water and telecommunications and losses from the termination of some off - balance - sheet partnerships .
enron also revealed that $ 1 . 2 billion had been shaved off shareholders ' equity because of those partnerships . the securities and exchange commission launched an investigation into the investment vehicles , and the company fired three executives linked to the partnerships .
an internal investigation led enron to admit it overstated profit by $ 586 million , or 20 % , going back to 1997 .
all those disclosures are unrelated to enron ' s core businesses of energy trading , energy marketing and natural gas pipelines , said dynegy president steve bergstrom , and it is those businesses that dynegy wants .
" we have had the opportunity to look under the hood of their core businesses and have found no surprises , " said bergstrom , who would be president of the combined company . dynegy expects those businesses alone to add as much as 95 cents a share to the combined company ' s earnings the first year , and dynegy has built protections into the deal if more surprises emerge from noncore businesses or off - balance - sheet partnerships , the executives said .
among the protections : dynegy or enron would receive $ 350 million if the other backs out of the deal ; dynegy can abandon the transaction if lawsuit and financial liabilities exceed $ 3 . 5 billion ; and if the deal falls apart , dynegy gets enron ' s northern natural gas pipeline .
the combined company would be leader in all of its primary businesses , watson said , with revenue of more than $ 200 billion and assets of more than $ 90 billion . the new dynegy would be the world ' s largest energy trader and would own 25 , 000 miles of natural gas pipelines and 22 , 500 megawatts of electricity generation .
it is that powerhouse role that may give regulators pause , energy and antitrust experts say .
california atty . gen . bill lockyer has not taken a position on the proposed merger . dynegy co - owns three power plants in california and enron controls a portion of the state ' s natural gas supply through its pipeline and trading businesses .
photo : kenneth lay , left , and chuck watson announce proposed merger . ; ; photographer : associated press
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron shares enriched ken lay before flaming out : graef crystal
2001 - 11 - 13 01 : 01 ( new york )
( commentary . graef crystal is a columnist for bloomberg
news . the opinions expressed are his own . )
las vegas , nov . 13 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . shareholders
never blinked as chief executive officer kenneth lay piled up pay
- - salary , bonuses , stock grants and options - - that would meet
almost any definition of excessive .
from 1993 to the end of 2000 , lay ' s potential compensation
came to $ 614 million if you add unexercised option profits to the
millions he actually pocketed .
sad to say , lay ' s paper profit of $ 362 million at the end of
2000 has evaporated as enron ' s stock lost about 90 percent of its
value . the houston , texas , energy company , beset by accounting
problems , is now being bought by a smaller competitor , dynegy
inc .
still , the 59 - year - old lay hauled away $ 31 . 5 million a year
in real dollars over the last eight years , a generous amount
given enron ' s recent admission - - after the securities and
exchange commission opened an investigation - - that it overstated
earnings by $ 586 million in five of those years .
lay was enron ' s ceo from the time it was formed 15 years ago
in a merger of natural - gas pipeline operators until he stepped
down in february for prot ? g ? jeffrey skilling . skilling left
unexpectedly in august for ` ` personal ' ' reasons .
ceo ' s return
in six months under skilling , enron ' s total return to
shareholders was a negative 46 percent , four times worse than the
performance of the standard & poor ' s 500 index . it was also a
sharp contrast to the 30 percent a year enron returned to
shareholders over the previous eight years under lay , when the
company ' s performance was almost double that of the s & p 500 .
so lay became ceo again after skilling ' s mid - august
departure - - and enron ' s performance has now been even worse :
minus 78 percent versus the 5 . 8 percent negative return of for
the s & p 500 .
while lay has an employment agreement extending all the way
to 2005 , the company ' s pending acquisition by dynegy leaves his
future in doubt . for enron ' s battered shareholders , whose stock
once was among the s & p 500 ' s top performers , that may not be such
bad news .
enron shareholders endured a roller - coaster ride during
lay ' s long tenure , their stock 2 . 2 times as volatile as that of
the s & p 500 index .
lay , and some other enron executives , were responsible for
at least some of the heavy activity in their company ' s shares .
lay exercised and sold option shares twice a day on every trading
day this year through aug . 21 , on last report . in the process , he
dumped about 300 , 000 option shares to reap about $ 26 million .
royal treatment
that comes atop his realized option gains of $ 123 million in
2000 and another $ 44 million the year before that .
shedding large numbers of option shares might seem
reasonable for a ceo about to leave the company . for someone
continuing as board chairman , such behavior raises suspicion he
might have known before others what a bad investment enron was
about to become .
over the past eight years , lay has received bonuses totaling
$ 19 . 8 million , free shares worth $ 12 . 7 million at the time of
their grant , payouts under miscellaneous stock - option plans of
$ 3 . 5 million and a whopping 11 million option shares .
those figures don ' t include free personal travel on company
planes . in 2000 alone , that little item came to $ 334 , 000 .
if lay has been handsomely compensated , he has treated his
outside directors royally . enron ' s current proxy statement
informs shareholders that directors in 2000 received an average
of $ 79 , 107 in cash , deferred compensation , phantom stock units
and stock options granted in lieu of cash .
who knew ?
by itself , that figure might not seem egregious . parsing the
artful language of the proxy , one reads further to find that each
outside director also received a stock option covering 10 , 775
shares at a strike price of $ 75 . 13 a share . i estimate the
present value of that option to be $ 315 , 000 , making for a
director ' s total pay of an eye - popping $ 394 , 000 .
to be sure , those options are now way underwater , given
enron ' s closing price yesterday of $ 9 . 24 . still , the fact they
were granted at all suggests that enron ' s directors must have had
a warm fuzzy feeling for lay while treating him so munificently .
politically , too , lay has shown generosity and a deft touch :
he gave $ 2 , 000 directly to president george w . bush ' s campaign ,
another $ 275 , 000 in soft money to the republican party and has
long been an adviser to bush on energy matters .
even if he was unaware of the accounting issues that helped
bring down enron , lay still profited hugely from a stock price
that soared on the strength of inflated numbers . and , as the ceo ,
he bears ultimate responsibility for what goes on in the company
he helped found and has run for most of the past 15 years .
the question arises , to echo a phrase made famous during the
watergate era : ` ` what did ken lay know , and when did he know
it ? ' '
- - graef crystal in las vegas ( 702 ) 270 - 6841
companies julie earle and richard waters in new york ; peter spiegel in washington see lex .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
global investing - spreading the risks - and the rewards .
11 / 13 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
just as enron is showing us how a public company should not shift private equity exposure off its balance sheet , sandy schwab , son of charles schwab , and middlebury capital , a new york - based hedge fund , are providing an alternative model .
mr schwab ' s firm chess ventures is raising a private equity fund that will specialise in financial services technology , according to a source close to the fund - raising . the idea is to attract 10 to 12 banks from around the world to co - invest in technology companies specialising in financial services .
the idea is similar to the corporate venturing activities undertaken by a host of california technology companies . they jumped into venture capital in the late 1990 s , not just because there seemed to be stacks of money to be made , but also so they could become partners to thrusting future competitors , rather than victims of their cutting - edge technology .
technology is also a vital business for financial services companies - and not just for those like schwab with a heavy presence in internet trading . every year , banks and brokers plough hundreds of millions of dollars into trading , settlement and risk management systems .
but the problems with corporate venturing became clear when companies such as jp morgan chase , wells fargo , dell and intel registered significant earnings volatility as the value of their venture capital holdings was marked down significantly .
enron got around these problems by setting up an off - balance sheet vehicle with a number of additional investors . its idea was to distance its earnings statement from volatile investments in the new power company and rhythm netconnections . but eventually , those investments came home