Subject: enron mentions
enron ' s lay turns down severance pay
the wall street journal , 11 / 14 / 01
enron ceo cut stakes in firms where he sits in director ' s seat
the wall street journal , 11 / 14 / 01
enron chief will give up severance
the new york times , 11 / 14 / 01
companies & finance the americas - regulators face new boundaries in enron deal .
financial times , 11 / 14 / 01
front page - companies nov 14 , 2001
enron chief relinquishes severance pay
los angeles times , 11 / 14 / 01
enron ceo says no to $ 60 . 6 million
the washington post , 11 / 14 / 01
enron ' s lay sells shareholdings in other companies , wsj reports
bloomberg , 11 / 14 / 01
greenspan takes on energy at rice award presentation
houston chronicle , 11 / 14 / 01
usa : enron ' s lay says no to hefty pay package .
reuters english news service , 11 / 14 / 01
enron chairman lay decides to forgo $ 60 . 6 million severance payment
dow jones business news , 11 / 14 / 01
enron chairman says he won ' t take dlrs 60 million compensation package if dynegy deal closes
associated press newswires , 11 / 14 / 01
enron ceo to turn down $ 60 . 6 million severance pay
houston chronicle , 11 / 14 / 01
enron offers reasons for selling to dynegy
houston chronicle , 11 / 14 / 01
enron chief may hit jackpot ceo ' s contract calls for a giant payout if control changes
the globe and mail , 11 / 14 / 01
city - enron chief in line for $ 60 m payout .
the daily telegraph , 11 / 14 / 01
mark to market : retail sales to surge on free money
capital markets report , 11 / 14 / 01
just stick it out or be a sucker
the economic times , 11 / 14 / 01
deal made ; now dynegy must make it work
chicago tribune , 11 / 14 / 01
dynegy defends merger partner ; ceo says enron errors not illegal
chicago tribune , 11 / 14 / 01
usa : update 1 - calpers calls on enron board to step aside in merger .
reuters english news service , 11 / 13 / 01
enron ceo helps present greenspan award
associated press newswires , 11 / 13 / 01
calpers opposes enron board members ' appt to dynegy board
dow jones energy service , 11 / 13 / 01
jesse jackson asks energy companies to hire more minorities
dow jones business news , 11 / 13 / 01
calpers speaks out on enron
business wire , 11 / 13 / 01
enron names raymond bowen treasurer
dow jones news service , 11 / 13 / 01
usa : enron names raymond bowen treasurer .
reuters english news service , 11 / 13 / 01
usa : enron earnings restatement a sign of deceit - suits .
reuters english news service , 11 / 13 / 01
usa : s & p says dynegy deal saves enron from junk rating .
reuters english news service , 11 / 13 / 01
enron ' s board should step aside from new company , calpers says
bloomberg , 11 / 13 / 01
enron ceo won ' t accept $ 60 . 6 mln in severance , spokesman says
bloomberg , 11 / 13 / 01
switzerland : swiss ewz suspends planned power venture with enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 14 / 01
enron ' s lay turns down severance pay
by rebecca smith and john r . emshwiller
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 14 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . said its chairman , kenneth lay , has decided to forgo a severance payment of $ 60 . 6 million that could be triggered by dynegy inc . ' s planned acquisition of enron . mr . lay ' s decision capped a day in which he appears to have changed his mind on the matter at least twice .
early in the day , an enron filing with the securities and exchange commission laid out mr . lay ' s severance package . by midday , enron indicated that mr . lay would keep only one - third of the payout , which he would take in stock in the combined company , and that he intended to donate one - third to a foundation to help displaced enron employees . the remaining third would cover income - tax liabilities .
but by the end of the day , enron spokesman mark palmer said that mr . lay , following a meeting of enron energy traders , had decided against taking any of the severance pay . though mr . lay didn ' t attend the traders ' meeting , senior managers told him that " opinions were expressed that he shouldn ' t receive the payment , " mr . palmer said . " he decided the cleanest thing to do was to waive the payment . " the opinions of traders carry particular weight because they produce most of enron ' s profits . questions for mr . lay were directed to mr . palmer , who said he had spoken with mr . lay and other company officials during the day .
the initial disclosure about mr . lay ' s hefty severance payment raised new questions about his willingness to sell enron for a share price that was about a third of the market price of a month ago . last friday , mr . lay even said that enron had other options to the dynegy purchase , which might have allowed the energy company to remain independent , though he declined to elaborate . " things weren ' t desperate . . . we had alternatives , " mr . lay said . the 59 - year - old mr . lay won ' t have an executive position at the combined company , though he might be a director .
for the 12 months ended aug . 31 , mr . lay received about $ 70 million through the exercise of enron options , according to disclosure reports compiled by thomson financial . last year , mr . lay was paid $ 8 . 3 million in salary and bonus and more than $ 10 million in stock awards and other compensation .
enron , the nation ' s largest energy trader , saw its stock collapse in recent weeks following a series of disclosures about the company ' s extensive dealings with partnerships run by some of its own officers . those dealings are under investigation by the sec . last friday , enron agreed to be acquired by the far smaller houston - based dynegy for stock , currently valued at about $ 10 . 7 billion . the merger agreement still must be approved by regulators and shareholders of the two companies .
separately , the california public employees ' retirement system , which owns about three million enron and 500 , 000 dynegy shares , said it would oppose the appointment of any current enron board member to the board of a combined company . michael flaherman , chair of calpers investment committee said that it appeared that enron ' s board " failed in its responsibility " to monitor the activities of enron executives .
mr . palmer , the enron spokesman , said mr . lay had provisions in his employment contract to protect him against a sudden change in control from 1989 forward . in february 2000 , when enron stock was trading between $ 60 and $ 70 a share and mr . lay was being widely lauded for his performance , he negotiated a bigger severance package than he had previously . last august , when chief executive jeffrey skilling quit unexpectedly , mr . lay assumed mr . skilling ' s duties and his contract term was extended by two years to dec . 31 , 2005 .
under the terms of his contract , mr . lay is entitled to payment of $ 20 . 2 million for every full calendar year left on his employment contract , in the event that his employment terminates within 60 days of a change in control . thus , mr . lay is entitled to three full years of payments , or $ 60 . 6 million .
mr . lay , who took charge of the then - houston natural gas co . in 1984 when it was a regional pipeline company , wasn ' t the only member of his family to benefit from enron ' s heady rise to a global energy giant . sec filings show that in recent years a sister of mr . lay , sharon lay , and a son , mark lay , received millions of dollars in salary , commissions and bonuses related to ms . lay ' s travel agency and a paper - products company connected to the younger mr . lay .
mr . palmer said it is a " cheap shot " to criticize the lay family because the pertinent transactions were reported in several annual proxy statements . " the contracts were bid out and fairly awarded , " mr . palmer said . ms . lay said her travel agency , of which she is president and half - owner , had won its enron business through competitive bidding and by providing " the very best service possible . " mark lay couldn ' t be reached for comment .
coming on top of disclosures of enron ' s dealings with partnerships run by its own executives , the relationships between lay family members and the company again raise questions about enron ' s willingness to keep separate corporate and personal interests . former chief financial officer andrew fastow and possibly other enron executives made millions of dollars from these partnerships .
mark lay ' s dealings with enron date back to 1994 , according to the available sec filings . in may 1997 , mark lay and " certain other individuals " who together had been officers , directors or shareholders of a company called paper & print management corp . , or ppmc , entered into employment agreements with an enron unit , enron capital & trade resources , according to enron ' s 1998 proxy statement . the individuals helped set up " a clearinghouse for the purchase and sale of finished paper products , " according to the sec filing . mr . palmer said this effort formed the rudiments of enron ' s profitable paper and pulp - trading business .
as part of the deal , enron agreed to reimburse ppmc $ 1 million for certain expenses . mark lay and his colleagues also agreed to " convey " to enron " certain intangible property rights " from ppmc .
mark lay also got a three - year employment contract from enron as a vice president of enron capital & trade . he got a signing bonus of $ 100 , 000 , a minimum monthly salary of $ 12 , 500 , a minimum annual bonus of $ 100 , 000 for 1997 - 1999 and an option to purchase 20 , 000 enron shares . mark lay is no longer with enron and is now attending a seminary , said mr . palmer .
since 1985 , sharon lay ' s firm , lay / wittenberg travel agency in the park inc . , has provided travel arrangements for employees of enron and its predecessor company . for this work the agency received $ 6 . 8 million from 1996 through 2000 . in an interview yesterday , ms . lay said enron accounted for more than half of her firm ' s revenue in some years . she said her brother ' s position was " more a problem " than an asset since it led some to assume she hadn ' t worked hard enough to get enron ' s business .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
inside track
enron ceo cut stakes in firms where he sits in director ' s seat
by cassell bryan - low
staff reporter of the wall street journal
11 / 14 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl 4
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
kenneth l . lay , enron corp . ' s embattled chairman and chief executive , in recent weeks has cashed in nearly $ 2 million of shares in companies at which he sits on the board .
mr . lay , 59 years , sold $ 1 . 2 million of shares , or more than a quarter of his holdings , of compaq computer corp . , where he has been a director for 14 years . in his first sale of the houston - based company ' s shares since 1999 , he disposed of 124 , 596 shares oct . 29 for $ 9 . 25 each , leaving him with a 340 , 724 share stake . apart from two directors who resigned , he is the only compaq insider to have sold shares this year .
the sale comes as the computer company awaits completion of its planned merger with hewlett - packard co . - - a deal the board has repeatedly said it supports . in a nov . 7 news release , the board , including mr . lay , said it " reaffirmed its strong support for the proposed merger . " a day earlier , h - p ' s founding hewlett family , which controls 5 % of h - p stock , said it intended to oppose the merger , throwing the deal ' s future into uncertainty . compaq shares traded at $ 8 . 80 , up $ 1 . 14 , as of 4 p . m . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday .
the sale , mr . lay said , wasn ' t related to his views on the merger . " it ' s no negative [ reflection ] on compaq , " he said . mr . lay , who also sold shares of drug maker eli lilly and it has disclosed a regulatory probe into its complex transactions with off - balance - sheet partnerships . shares have recovered some ground since friday ' s announcement by dynegy inc . , a rival houston independent power producer , of plans to acquire enron . shares of enron traded at $ 9 . 98 , up 74 cents , or 8 % , on the big board as of 4 p . m .
as previously reported , mr . lay sold $ 25 . 7 million of his enron shares this year , as the stock fell from about $ 78 to under $ 44 , and his remaining stake is valued at about $ 28 million . for 2000 , he earned a salary of $ 1 . 3 million , a bonus of $ 7 million , plus $ 7 . 5 million in enron restricted stock and other benefits , including use of a personal plane , according to enron ' s proxy statement .
mr . lay , who was enron ' s ceo from 1985 until february of this year , resumed the post after his successor , jeffrey skilling , stepped down in august after only six months on the job . at that time , mr . lay agreed to stay on through 2005 , but his employment agreement provides for a lump - sum payment under a change of control , such as the proposed merger with dynegy , according to a regulatory document filed yesterday . the deal is expected to close sometime next year , in which case mr . lay would be entitled to $ 60 . 6 million under his contract if he terminates his employment within 60 days of the merger . in addition , mr . lay is entitled to an amount for any related tax penalties if the payment was deemed to constitute an " excess parachute payment , " the filing said .
mr . lay also serves on the board of eott energy corp . - - the general partner of eott energy partners lp - - and newpower holdings co .
mr . lay also recently sold his stake in i 2 technologies inc . , according to his spokesman , following mr . lay ' s resignation from the board of that company oct . 25 after serving for a year . as of march 2001 , he owned 13 , 000 shares of the dallas business - software company , a stake that would have been valued at about $ 64 , 000 at the time he resigned .
- - -
robin sidel contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
the markets : market place
enron chief will give up severance
by richard a . oppel jr . and floyd norris
11 / 14 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
trying to quell a furious reaction from employees outraged that he stood to profit from a merger with dynegy inc . , kenneth l . lay , the chairman and chief executive of the enron corporation , decided late yesterday to give up a severance package worth more than $ 60 million .
the tumult at enron ' s headquarters in houston began after the company disclosed in a securities filing earlier in the day that mr . lay was in line to collect $ 60 . 6 million in pay after the deal closed next year , $ 20 . 2 million for every full calendar year left in his employment contract .
mr . lay had been a popular leader as enron grew in the last 15 years from a pipeline operator into the nation ' s largest energy trader , a business largely of his invention . employees shared in the gains , though none gained as much as mr . lay , who has collected more than $ 300 million since 1989 , mostly through exercising stock options .
but the value of employees ' stock options and their 401 ( k ) accounts evaporated this fall as enron shares plummeted amid concerns over the company ' s accounting practices . and traders and other workers started the day yesterday gossiping angrily about mr . lay ' s severance package .
then , at an afternoon meeting of employees in the company ' s core natural gas and electricity trading operation , which provides by far the biggest part of enron ' s profits , ' ' quite a bit of concern was raised about the news people had been seeing about this change - of - control payment , ' ' mark palmer , an enron spokesman , said .
at about 4 p . m . central time , two senior executives who had attended the meeting , john lavorato and louise kitchen , told mr . lay about the reaction of employees . ' ' ken made a decision shortly thereafter that the best thing to do would be to waive the payment altogether , ' ' mr . palmer said . even if dynegy ' s directors later voted to award mr . lay a new severance agreement , he would turn it down , mr . palmer added .
' ' what ken said is that this is the absolute cleanest way to remove any doubts , that he was not going to profit as a result of this change of control , ' ' mr . palmer said . ' ' this issue was causing enough concern among employees that he wanted to deal with it . ' '
severance pay had been an awkward matter for mr . lay in the last week . the only reason that enron was being acquired - - putting the severance clauses in his employment contract into effect - - were the financial problems that have occurred on his watch . the company ' s shares have lost almost 90 percent of their value after peaking in the summer of 2000 .
during merger discussions last week , mr . lay told dynegy ' s chairman , charles l . watson , that he wanted to rework the severance package , mr . palmer said . on monday , mr . watson disclosed that mr . lay wanted much of the severance to be in the form of stock options .
by yesterday afternoon , enron officials were saying that mr . lay planned to take two - thirds of the severance in stock or other noncash compensation . and , they said , he wanted to give half of that amount , or one - third of his total package , to establish a charitable foundation to benefit enron employees .
it was about an hour later that enron said mr . lay would give up the severance entirely .
mr . lay has not decided whether to accept an invitation to be on the board of the combined company , which will be called dynegy .
the deal could still fall victim to antitrust objections or disclosures of further financial problems at enron .
whether mr . lay ' s gesture will placate enron ' s traders , who are now deluging other energy - trading companies with resumes , remains to be seen . dynegy is known as a much more conservative firm than enron , and analysts renewed their concerns yesterday about the cultural clash draining the talent , and value , from the combined company .
' ' so much of their top talent is going out the door , i don ' t know what dynegy gets , ' ' said a senior executive at another rival firm .
the stunning near - collapse of enron - - bankruptcy was only averted , some analysts say , by the dynegy acquisition - - closes a chapter on one of the most influential careers in the history of the energy business .
the ugly circumstances of enron ' s downfall , including the revelation that partnerships were used to move debt off the company ' s balance sheet and that enron overstated profits in the last five years by almost $ 600 million , have left mr . lay ' s reputation in tatters .
just months ago , mr . lay was widely hailed - - or decried , in some circles - - as the genius behind energy deregulation . his friend , george w . bush , had been elected president , and policies favored by enron were front and center in the administration ' s energy policy . mr . lay retired from day - to - day management , making plans to pursue new business interests .
but he again assumed the chief executive ' s post at enron in august , after the unexpected resignation of his handpicked successor , jeffrey k . skilling , and the accounting problems swiftly unfolded in the weeks that followed . on monday , mr . lay said he might revive the business plans he set aside during the summer , but he declined to say what those plans were .
even without the severance package , mr . lay has become enormously wealthy running enron .
all told , from 1989 through this year , mr . lay collected about $ 13 million in salary ( his exact salary for this year is not known ) and $ 26 . 8 million in cash bonuses . but those sums were dwarfed by the $ 266 . 7 million in profits that he received in selling stock .
the bulk of his income from exercising options came in the last four years : $ 13 . 1 million in 1998 , $ 43 . 9 million in 1999 , $ 123 . 4 million in 2000 and $ 20 . 7 million this year - - a year in which he sold stock by prearrangement on every trading day through july 31 , and then stopped , not wanting to appear to be selling as the stock price was declining .
the options he has cashed in recent years , as well as those he now owns , are badly out of the money at enron ' s current stock price of $ 9 . 98 , down from a peak reached in 2000 of $ 90 . 75 .
his bonus in 2000 was $ 7 million , an award that enron ' s board said was based on the company ' s rising profits and high shareholder return . the company restated those profits last week , explaining that it had improperly applied accounting rules . it said that about 40 percent of its profit in 2000 came from transactions with partnerships that were controlled by andrew s . fastow , who was then enron ' s chief financial officer .
the company ' s stock price , which was in free fall after questions about the fastow partnerships prompted an investigation by the securities and exchange commission , fell to $ 7 a share in the wake of the disclosures . that was the lowest price for the stock since 1991 . it rebounded to nearly $ 10 after dynegy agreed to acquire the company in a stock swap .
in january , enron ' s board awarded another bonus to mr . lay , of $ 3 . 6 million . that was based entirely on the company ' s shareholder return from 1997 through 2000 , which came to 294 percent , the company said . all of that return has since been wiped out .
also in january , mr . lay was awarded 106 , 578 shares of restricted stock , to vest periodically through 2004 . all the shares will now vest when the dynegy deal is completed , and while their value has plunged , the award is still worth more than $ 1 million .
still , mr . lay suffered huge paper losses this year .
at the end of 2000 , he had 5 . 1 million options that could have been exercised for profits of $ 257 . 5 million , and another 1 . 5 million options that would have been worth another $ 104 . 1 million when enough time had passed that they could be exercised - - assuming the share price stayed level . he exercised 565 , 928 of those options this year , making a profit of $ 20 . 7 million , but the ones he did not exercise are now under water .
photo : kenneth l . lay , the chief executive of enron , decided to give up his severance of more than $ 60 million after complaints from employees . ( associated press ) ( pg . cl 0 ) graph : ' ' paid to perform ' ' the compensation of kenneth l . lay , enron ' s chief executive , has risen and fallen with the performance of the company ' s stock . graph tracks mr . lay ' s income and enron ' s year end stock price since 1989 . ( pg . cl 0 )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
companies & finance the americas - regulators face new boundaries in enron deal .
by nancy dunne and peter spiegel .
11 / 14 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
regulators wading into the competitive landscape following dynegy ' s offer to buy enron will be scrutinising a new industry where traditional yardsticks like market definition and barriers to entry have yet to be determined . this will make gaining approval of the $ 10 bn deal an uncertain and complicated task , experts said .
dynegy and enron have insisted the merger , which will combine the largest energy trading company in the world with one of its largest competitors , will be approved by federal regulators without significant conditions or divestitures .
but competition lawyers said this week that because the market for energy trading is so new - indeed , it was all but created by enron in the 1990 s - that federal agencies will have to spend months finding out how rivals compete in order to develop guidelines to measure the merger ' s impact .
" we don ' t have any track record here , " said ernest gellhorn , an antitrust expert at george mason university .
the deal will be reviewed by state and federal agencies , but the most critical approvals will come from the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ) and us antitrust agencies .
central to the antitrust review will be how competition authorities define the market - how big it is , which companies are included as competitors , and how the market share is divided up .
former antitrust officials said enron might be forced to resort to a " failing firm " defence , which is occasionally used by companies with large market shares when attempting to add to their dominant position .
but robert mctamaney , an antitrust partner at carter ledyard & milburn , said the failing - firm route may be difficult for dynegy and enron to prove , since it requires a showing that without the merger , enron ' s trading business would exit the market completely .
helping the companies , however , is the relative ease with which competitors can enter the trading market , experts said .
an analysis of barriers will hinge on whether rivals can successfully argue that the level of expertise in the industry is so sophisticated - or that enron ' s trading technologies are so specialised - that it would be impossible for new entrants to duplicate the company ' s operations .
dynegy executives said they expect more scrutiny from ferc , though it rarely rejects mergers , and its guidelines put an emphasis on speed of reviews .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
front page - companies nov 14 , 2001
by sheila mcnulty and peter thal larsen
ken lay , the chairman and chief executive of enron , is set to turn down a dollars 60 . 6 m pay - off to which he was entitled following the troubled power group ' s takeover by dynegy .
mr lay , who oversaw enron ' s rapid rise and its subsequent collapse and sale to dynegy , was due the payment under an employment contract he extended when he resumed full control of the company in august 2001 .
however mr lay decided yesterday after meeting with some enron employees that he would turn down the payment .
" ken lay will not accept the dollars 60 m when he leaves , " an enron spokeswoman said . " he felt like it was not the right thing to do . "
according to a filing with the securities and exchange commission , mr lay is entitled to dollars 20 . 2 m in cash for every remaining year in his employment contract if he leaves enron within 60 days of the company being taken over .
mr lay ' s decision is in sharp contrast to other senior us executives who have negotiated - and accepted - " golden parachutes " which guarantee them large payments even if they oversaw large - scale destruction in shareholder value .
mr lay had previously come under fire from shareholders for selling some of his enron shareholding before the collapse in the company ' s stock price . between january and july this year , he sold enron shares with an estimated value of more than dollars 27 . 5 m .
at the close of trading yesterday enron was valued at dollars 7 . 5 bn , compared with a peak of dollars 65 . 9 bn in august last year .
the terms were part of mr lay ' s original employment contract , which had been due to expire in december 2003 . but in august , following the sudden departure of chief executive jeff skilling , enron ' s board extended mr lay ' s contract by two years .
at the time , the contract extension was seen as an attempt by mr lay to restore investor confidence in the company . but it also ensured he would receive an additional dollars 40 . 4 m if he left following a sale .
after the dollars 10 . 8 bn dynegy takeover , mr lay is expected to give up his executive responsibilities . he may join the combined group ' s board of directors but this will not affect his eligibility for a pay - off . the deal , which requires the approval of us competition authorities , is expected to be completed next year .
copyright : the financial times limited 1995 - 1998
business ; financial desk
enron chief relinquishes severance pay
jerry hirsch
times staff writer
11 / 14 / 2001
los angeles times
home edition
c - 1
copyright 2001 / the times mirror company
enron corp . chief executive kenneth l . lay on tuesday waived a severance payment of at least $ 60 million due him when dynegy inc . completes its expected acquisition of enron next year , company officials said .
the potential payment , disclosed in a securities and exchange commission regulatory filing tuesday , would undoubtedly have sparked additional controversy , given lay ' s primary role in the sharp fall of enron ' s stock and worsening financial condition , which led to the dynegy deal .
the payment would have been one of the biggest rewards for failure in corporate history , said graef crystal , a leading compensation expert .
the payment would have topped the nearly $ 40 million mattel inc . paid former chief executive jill barad after she was ousted in 2000 after spending $ 3 . 6 billion to purchase a money - losing software business the company eventually gave away to a technology group in return for a slice of future profit .
it would have been almost double the $ 35 million in severance collected by former xerox corp . chief executive richard thoman when he was fired in may 2000 after a disastrous reorganization of the copier company ' s sales force .
according to enron spokeswoman karen denne , lay spoke to a number of employees tuesday and " decided that the best course of action would be for him to waive his right to payment . "
" instead , " denne said , " the combined company would decide the best use of those funds . "
lay and enron have run into a storm of criticism in recent weeks after the disclosure of a series of partnerships and the dismissal of several top executives who invested in those ventures .
news of the partnerships and their losses forced the houston - based company to restate its earnings last week , reducing corporate profits over the last four years by $ 586 million , or about 20 % , to $ 2 . 3 billion .
shareholders have filed a series of lawsuits against enron , charging the company with failing to disclose key information about its operations and financial structure .
the negative disclosures sparked a cash crunch and threatened enron with collapse until it was saved by an agreement friday to be acquired by houston - based dynegy for $ 9 billion .
shareholders have watched the value of enron shares decline almost 90 % from a high of nearly $ 90 on aug . 23 , 2000 . its shares closed tuesday at $ 9 . 98 , up 74 cents , on the new york stock exchange .
ceo already reaped
$ 150 million in options
according to the regulatory filing , lay stood to collect $ 20 . 2 million a year , plus certain extraordinary tax expenses , for each of the full years remaining on his contract once the company was acquired .
if the dynegy deal is completed as expected next year , lay ' s payment would have totaled at least $ 60 . 6 million . his contract ends on dec . 31 , 2005 .
lay already reaped about $ 150 million in stock option gains the last two years alone . those gains were in part made possible by rosy enron profit statements , which the company restated downward last week , crystal said .
" it is a good move to waive the payment , " crystal said . " but that ' s just the down payment on what he should give back . there is probably another $ 100 million in option profits he should give back . had they correctly stated the books , the stock would not have risen as high and he would not have made as much from exercising his stock options in the company . "
a stock option gives the holder the right to purchase a share of a company at a predetermined price . options are a common executive pay incentive , allowing the individual to purchase and sell the shares , pocketing the gains in their appreciation . lay made $ 123 million off such transactions last year and $ 26 million this year , crystal said .
lay since 1989 has had a " change of control " clause that awards him a special payment if enron changes hands . the company described the clause as a standard part of executive employment agreements common to many companies .
some wall street analysts said the liability for the payment would be dynegy ' s problem at the point the merger is completed . enron shareholders already have suffered all the damage they are going to see