Subject: enron mentions
a merger ahead for enron ?
businessweek , 11 / 19 / 01
see you in court
the economist , 11 / 17 / 01
did ken lay understand what was happening at enron ?
the new york times , 11 / 16 / 01
a quick change in fortune dulls the glimmer of houston
the new york times , 11 / 16 / 01
johnson and longley hurting bottom line
the new york times , 11 / 16 / 01
the five dumbest things on wall street this week
thestreet . com , 11 / 16 / 01
global investing - fidelity reveals a rise in its enron exposure .
financial times , 11 / 16 / 01
front page - companies & markets - hp and compaq chiefs to forego $ 22 m .
financial times , 11 / 16 / 01
stock drop cuts enron retirement package
associated press newswires , 11 / 16 / 01
city - international power looks for purchases .
the daily telegraph , 11 / 16 / 01
india dabhol project due diligence to start next week
dow jones international news , 11 / 16 / 01
britain clears purchase of enron ' s indian oil assets
the daily deal , 11 / 16 / 01
u . s . firms get in on alaska pipeline
the globe and mail , 11 / 16 / 01
new power faults data flow but opposes program delay
houston chronicle , 11 / 16 / 01
consortium ' s return sparks renewed hope in gas pipeline project
associated press newswires , 11 / 15 / 01
usa : janus funds dumped emc in third quarter .
reuters english news service , 11 / 15 / 01
cash infusion little comfort to enron counterparties
dow jones energy service , 11 / 15 / 01
dynegy may want some of enron ' s broadband assets
dow jones energy service , 11 / 15 / 01
in business this week
a merger ahead for enron ?
edited by monica roman
11 / 19 / 2001
businessweek
50
( copyright 2001 mcgraw - hill , inc . )
with its stock falling to new lows and its credit rating battered , energy giant enron is desperately searching for new capital . sources close to the houston company say it ' s considering deals with other energy - trading companies , private - equity firms , and blue - chip saviors such as ge capital . the wall street journal and cnbc reported that dynegy is in merger talks with enron . the company ' s financial crisis was sparked by disclosures about some of its off - balance - sheet partnership deals negotiated by former chief financial officer andrew fastow . a securities & exchange commission investigation and the threat of liabilities from shareholder lawsuits could make it tough for enron to land a new investor .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
finance source : world reporter ( tm ) - ft mccarthy
the company ' s trials have just begun
lawyers are swarming all over enron ' s old financial statements and press releases in the hope of reaping huge fees from securities litigation . more than 20 class - action lawsuits have been filed in recent weeks , and new ones are popping up every day . a formal process has been started to consolidate litigation in houston , where the troubled energy company is based , with all lawyers interested in the case required to stake their claims by december 21 st .
the broadest accusations will be of fraud and material misstatement , legal ways of saying that the company ' s financial statements were garbage . this week , enron ' s founder and chairman , kenneth lay , decided to forgo a severance package worth over $ 60 m while admitting that the company ' s problems " had been exacerbated by the extensive use of debt capital , both on and off the balance sheet " . america ' s financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) is looking again at off - balance - sheet financing , having fretted about it on and off for a decade .
there will also be charges of insider trading , because even as enron was issuing securities amid glowing profits reports , top executives were dumping over $ 1 billion of enron shares to " unsuspecting investors " , a group that includes anybody who , however briefly , has held one of the company ' s 750 m shares in the past two years . " the number of class members will be huge , " says maurice pesso , a lawyer at a new york firm that has filed a claim .
there are , however , limits to the company ' s liability . it has already restated its results going back five years , but federal law restricts litigation to the past three . moreover , enron will not take the rap alone . its auditor , arthur andersen ( now plain andersen ) , is also named as a defendant in at least one of the complaints already filed . the litigation comes after a rough decade for andersen . it has had to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in settlements after sloppy audits on such companies as waste management , sunbeam and discovery zone .
because enron evolved from an energy company into a financial firm , it became much like an unregulated bank . the lack of supervision meant that the role of the company ' s auditor was crucial . andersen was certainly paid as if it was . in 2000 , it collected $ 25 m for auditing enron ' s books and another $ 27 m for consulting services . now how do you account for that ?
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
did ken lay understand what was happening at enron ?
by floyd norris
11 / 16 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
what a tangled web was weaved by enron . both investors and managers seem to have been misled .
' ' enron became overleveraged , ' ' kenneth l . lay , enron ' s chairman and chief executive , said this week , adding that things went wrong in ways that ' ' i could not have ever contemplated . ' ' he pointed to investments that ' ' performed far worse than we ever could have imagined . ' '
that was the first time that enron had admitted it had a leverage problem , and it came only after the brutal reality had become apparent to many others . mr . lay says he understood what was going on , but i suspect he had left crucial details to others who have since departed and did not fully grasp the reality that was obscured by enron ' s soothing financial statements .
when enron was riding high , it could easily have sold stock to raise capital that it now desperately wants . mr . lay and other executives sold stock , but the company did not . just a month ago , mr . lay spoke enthusiastically of how great the company ' s continuing earnings were .
the leverage was not easy to find . a lot of it was carried off enron ' s balance sheet . partnerships and special - purpose entities that enron set up borrowed money and funneled the cash to enron . enron guaranteed the debt but did not have to show it on its own balance sheet because it could meet its obligations by issuing stock . as undisclosed losses built up in those entities , it became more likely they could not pay their bills , leaving enron to do so .
it is also clear that the bond rating agencies did not understand enron ' s plight until the last couple of weeks . when they figured it out , it took a $ 1 . 5 billion equity infusion that is part of the dynegy takeover to keep enron ' s rating above junk level .
now enron has a board committee investigating various transactions , and promises to release details as they are uncovered . officials speak as if they are learning what happened for the first time , and perhaps they are . jeffrey skilling , mr . lay ' s protege , was enron ' s chief financial engineer until he quit this summer . and enron ' s chief financial officer and treasurer were ousted as enron unraveled .
some investors would say none of that matters now , that the only important fact is that dynegy is buying enron anyway . chuck watson , dynegy ' s chief executive , is convinced that enron ' s energy trading business is a gem that more than justifies the price dynegy is paying . he figures the losses from the bad investments can be contained .
the big question now may be whether mr . watson will retain his enthusiasm after his people study enron ' s trading positions . enron has always said it hedged its big derivative positions - - positions that can contain huge leverage that does not show up on the balance sheet - - but some of that hedging was with affiliated companies . if big surprises are found , dynegy could back out of the deal .
there is plenty of blame to go around here , and suits have been filed against enron , its current and former officials , and its auditor , arthur andersen . but investors also bear responsibility . enron ' s financial statements were , as mr . lay conceded this week , ' ' opaque and difficult to understand . ' ' investors and analysts knew they did not know what was going on . they bought anyway .
enron was viewed as a company that always made its numbers . an old - line gas pipeline company had been transformed into a brilliant trader that could apply its magic around the world . investors did not care how enron made the numbers . now , when it is too late , they do .
graph tracks the monthly closes of enron ' s stock price from 1998 through 2001 . yesterday ' s close : $ 9 . 48
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section a
a quick change in fortune dulls the glimmer of houston
by jim yardley
11 / 16 / 2001
the new york times
page 14 , column 1
c . 2001 new york times company
houston , nov . 15 - - on a day when oil prices plunged to two - year lows , when the hometown enron corporation continued its ugly free fall and when gloomy projections showed the local economy headed for a decidedly rough patch , george alcorn lunched on chilean sea bass at the downtown petroleum club and decided that the sky was not falling .
' ' i ' ve been an optimist all my life , ' ' said mr . alcorn , 69 , who owns an independent exploration company and survived the oil bust years of the mid - 1980 ' s . ' ' the opportunities in this town have always been large . i don ' t think it ' s going to change at all . ' '
that mr . alcorn could sound upbeat in such seemingly grim economic times is hardly surprising in a city largely built on pluck and buoyant optimism . until recently , economists had predicted that the economic downturn plaguing the rest of the nation would largely bypass houston , the nation ' s energy capital . in june , the economist magazine , citing houston ' s increasingly diverse economy , even promoted it as a candidate for the world ' s next great international city and business center .
but june is a long time ago . by then , the city had already lost 2 , 000 jobs from the struggling computer maker compaq and will probably now lose thousands more if the company ' s merger with hewlett - packard is approved . in the aftermath of the sept . 11 terrorist attacks , continental airlines , which is based here , announced 12 , 000 layoffs , some likely to come in houston . the texas medical center , one of the largest medical complexes in the world , is facing financial peril after flooding in june caused an estimated $ 2 billion in damages .
the latest blow to the economy as well as the local psyche is the plight of enron , the energy company that some analysts said tottered near bankruptcy before a merger with its local rival , dynegy , was announced last week . even if the merger goes through , the city is expected to feel a crunch ; local real estate analysts say the merger could produce a glut of downtown office space at a time when new towers are under construction , including one by enron .
one visible symbol of the changing fortunes is that two of the city ' s sports stadiums , enron field and compaq center , are named for companies that soon may not exist . this week , the national association of purchasing management , which measures business activity and industrial production , released a report showing that houston ' s economy had contracted in october after 32 consecutive months of expansion .
' ' over the first half of this year , you had to feel pretty good , ' ' said bill gilmer , an economist at the federal reserve bank of dallas and an authority on houston . but mr . gilmer said that much of the city ' s recent job growth was driven by oil and gas companies and that the decline in prices meant the sector was ' ' running out of steam . ' '
' ' the national economy , ' ' mr . gilmer added , ' ' is not helping out right now . ' '
the fact that the ailing national economy is dragging on houston is , oddly enough , evidence of the city ' s success in recovering from the 1980 ' s oil bust . then , with the local economy dominated by oil and gas , the drop in prices crushed the city and prompted civic leaders to preach economic diversification . and it worked : compaq , continental , the texas medical center as well as dramatic growth in small business helped houston recover and grow even faster , becoming the nation ' s fourth - largest city . the new generation of sophisticated energy companies , led by enron , then created a boom .
economists say the next several months are likely to be slow . there could be substantial layoffs if compaq and enron mergers take place . mr . gilmer said the price of oil still played a large role in the city ' s economy ; the number of exploration rigs has dropped to roughly 1 , 000 from about 1 , 300 in recent months .
yet no one is predicting a reprise of the bust , when downtown office buildings stood practically empty . instead , economists point to a relatively quick rebound . ray perryman , a texas economist who runs the perryman group , said houston still had an infrastructure envied by most other cities , including the city ' s bustling port , the nation ' s second largest . the city was recently named as one of four finalists to become the american entry to be host of the 2012 olympic games . voters recently approved construction of a starter light rail line , and federal environmental officials recently signed off on a plan to greatly reduce air pollution .
' ' we ' re sitting here with over two million jobs , ' ' said former mayor bob lanier .
the downfall of enron , though , a company whose value dropped almost 90 percent because of accounting problems and financial distress , has been the most highly publicized and unexpected blow to the city ' s economy . the company had embodied the self - image that houston business leaders hold dear : it was entrepreneurial , aggressive and ground breaking . it was also a generous civic benefactor ; the company ' s chairman , kenneth l . lay , a close friend of president bush , had even been rumored as a potential mayoral candidate .
but this week , enron ' s lost glory became painfully evident . in a hall at rice university on tuesday , mr . lay presented alan greenspan , the federal reserve chairman , with a lifetime achievement award , the enron prize , which mr . lay ' s company had endowed and named in flush times . the next morning , an article in the houston chronicle said no decision had been made on whether the name of the prize would be changed .
photos : compaq center , home of the n . b . a . houston rockets , is named for a company that soon may not exist . enron , above , may soon be acquired by a rival energy company . ( photographs by f . carter smith for the new york times )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section s
sports business
johnson and longley hurting bottom line
by richard sandomir
11 / 16 / 2001
the new york times
page 3 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
larry johnson and luc longley are gone from the knicks ' roster , but clearly not forgotten by their former employers at cablevision .
there will be no corporate tributes to johnson , who retired , and longley , who was waived . there will be no statues erected in their honor outside madison square garden , a division of cablevision .
but johnson and longley live on in cablevision ' s third - quarter financial report , even though their names go unmentioned . the garden has paid them the $ 48 million they had remaining on their contracts , then wrote them off because they are no longer performing for their money ; the players lost the value they had when they first arrived at the garden . now they are nonperforming assets , not a small power forward and a bulky 7 - foot - 2 - inch center .
at least johnson was , for a time after his acquisition in 1996 , a key part of the team , even if his bad back kept him from scoring or rebounding as he had with the charlotte hornets . but the injured longley ' s contribution last season was minuscule .
so the garden , which was hurt by fewer shows at the garden and radio city music hall , took a one - time hit and wrote off the value of johnson ' s and longley ' s contracts . for the third quarter , which ended sept . 30 , the garden ' s operating cash - flow deficit was $ 32 . 4 million , compared with $ 29 . 6 million in operating cash flow last year for the same period . ( operating cash flow at cablevision is defined as operating profit before depreciation and amortization . )
insurance will cover some of the cost of the johnson - longley payouts .
' ' the team looks healthy , ' ' jim dolan , the president of cablevision , said on tuesday during a conference call with analysts . ' ' i don ' t expect any more write - offs . ' '
whether that turns out to be true depends on whether any currently hearty player sustains a career - ending injury . but cablevision could have avoided this financial circumstance had it paid attention to the physical conditions of johnson and longley . in each case , the garden knew it was acquiring damaged goods .
in his second season in charlotte , johnson hurt his back , and he has never been the same . maybe the garden was swayed that he was well enough , because he averaged 20 . 5 points and 8 . 4 rebounds in the season before it traded anthony mason for him . but the persistence of his back problems in the last few seasons attests to the riskiness of getting him in the first place . the back compromised his skills , often limiting him to being a symbol of the knicks ' grit . he also spelled ' ' l ' ' with his bended arm quite nicely , yet not worth an average of $ 7 million a year .
when longley arrived from phoenix last year in the four - team deal that sent patrick ewing to seattle , he said he had told the knicks that he had a degenerative ankle condition .
' ' i brought up my ankle in my physical with the knicks , ' ' he said in july , ' ' and they said , ' have you been playing ? ' i said , ' yes , ' and that was it . ' ' the fact was , he played for the australian olympic team in sydney last year , but pain from his ankle kept him from practicing .
should have been a tip - off .
the naming rights dance
enron field , home of the houston home run , is bound to be called something different next season when jimy williams starts his tenure as the astros ' manager .
enron , the world ' s largest energy trader , agreed to pay $ 100 million to put its name on the ballpark for 30 years , a deal that began last year . but enron is in trouble . it has lost nearly $ 60 billion in its market value ; the company recently said it had overstated its profits for the past five years by nearly $ 600 million and it agreed to be acquired by dynergy for $ 9 billion .
in another part of houston , the compaq center could take on another name now that the computer maker it was named for in 1997 ( at $ 900 , 000 annually for six years ) is planning to merge with hewlett - packard . in 2003 , the rockets will move to a new arena .
named stadiums and arenas have changed monikers before . a takeover turned philadelphia ' s comcast center into the first union center . the twa dome in st . louis is now the dome at america ' s center to reflect twa ' s purchase by american airlines . marine midland arena in buffalo now has hsbc ' s name .
meanwhile , pro player stadium near miami is named for a defunct division of the bankrupt fruit of the loom .
two other n . f . l . stadiums , one being built , the other three years old , are named for ailing companies . in foxboro , mass . , cmgi field is being readied for play next season by the new england patriots . in the 12 months ended july 31 , cmgi , an internet development company , lost $ 4 . 4 billion ( twice the annual network tv payments to the n . f . l . ) . cmgi will pay $ 114 million over 15 years for its naming deal - - if it lasts that long .
psinet , an internet communications services provider that is paying $ 105 . 5 million over 20 years to be the name atop the baltimore ravens ' stadium , filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection earlier this year after losing $ 3 . 2 billion in the quarter ending march 31 .
the conseco fieldhouse in indiana , the home of the pacers , is named for a finance and insurance company that recently posted a $ 410 million quarterly loss .
the financial state of some airlines since sept . 11 may affect some of the arenas and stadiums named for them . besides the dome in st . louis , six other facilities are named for airlines ( two for american ) . last year , the canadian airlines saddledome , where the calgary flames play , changed its name when its namesake went bankrupt and was bought by air canada . now it is the pengrowth saddledome .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones fleeing investors have bid the stock down about 90 % from its high last fall .
4 . a blodget blunder ?
speaking of folks who lost money for investors , analyst henry blodget is taking part in a buyout at merrill lynch , reportedly exiting the firm with a severance package of about $ 2 million . ( bwah - ha - ha - ha - ha . )
blodget won notoriety for talking up the prospects of many internet issues that later went belly - up or were acquired on the cheap , including such resounding losers as pets . com , psinet and ubid .
last summer one irate investor , claiming he ' d lost half a million dollars by taking blodget ' s advice , extracted $ 400 , 000 in compensation from merrill lynch .
but despite the lousy stock calls , in retrospect blodget looks pretty smart . he cultivated a momentarily outsized ( if short - lived ) cult of personality - - worth doing once during a lifetime , in our humble opinion - - and secured a tidy payout on the way out the door .
we note his exit from the scene not because he was dumb , but because his passage represents the end of an ignominiously silly era - - one in which ordinary investors tossed money into dubious ideas ( like pets . com ) , then were ungraceful enough to complain they ' d gotten bad advice . there ' s no question analysts may have meted out absurdly bullish stock forecasts . the bigger problem is that investors , suckered by the potential of outlandish profits , acted like they believed them .
5 . unflagging american opportunists
while we salute the unflagging american entrepreneurial spirit , we note that it also can metamorphose into enthusiastic fraud . such was the case with three opportunists flagged by the sec this week : companies claiming to have products that protect against bioterrorism .
most inventive of the three was from r - tec technologies ( rttc . ob : otc bb - news - commentary ) , which claimed to have developed a " chemical and biological alarm and neutralization defense system , " or in trumped - up military lingo , " c - band . " the company said it ' s the first " mechanically - operated " ( with a wind - up key in back ? ) system to protect citizens from such attacks .
r - tec has admitted that it ' s never tested the device , doesn ' t have any plans to manufacture it and doesn ' t actually hold a patent on it . but it gets bonus fraud points for the cool acronym .
more straightforward scams were from disease sciences ( dise . ob : otc bb - news - commentary ) and the classica group ( tcgi : nasdaq sc - news - commentary ) , which said they had technology capable of killing anthrax in the mail . disease science touted its " high pressure pulse " processing , a fairly intensive - sounding application that , the sec notes , it does not have a license to use . the classica group ' s alleged microwave technology likewise got a thumbs - down from the sec .
global investing - fidelity reveals a rise in its enron exposure .
by elizabeth wine .
11 / 16 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
fidelity , the world ' s largest mutual fund company , boosted its exposure to troubled energy trader enron by about 20 per cent in the third quarter , just as the stock began to collapse amid regulatory scrutiny .
in filings to the securities and exchange commission released this week , the boston - based company reported that it owned 20 . 8 m shares of enron on september 30 - up from 16 . 5 m on june 30 . the group reports its holdings with a two - month delay .
the filings do not detail the holdings of individual funds . the group ' s managers could also have sold some of their holdings since the filing period ended .
morningstar analyst scott cooley noted that even after the increase , assuming no shares had been sold , fidelity would own about 3 per cent of enron ' s outstanding shares , a small amount for such a large fund manager . with more than $ 800 bn under management , the group holds sizeable positions in many companies . mr cooley said the increase was characteristic of fidelity " buying on the dip " .
enron shares began falling in september , as news emerged that the company ' s financial statements were more complex than investors realised , featuring several off - balance sheet partnerships , now under sec investigation .
enron ' s shares plunged nearly 66 per cent in the fourth quarter .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
front page - companies & markets - hp and compaq chiefs to forego $ 22 m .
by scott morrison .
11 / 16 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
front page - companies & markets - hp and compaq chiefs to forego $ 22 m - revelation comes amid shareholder concern over $ 24 bn acquisition .
the chief executives of hewlett - packard and compaq computer will forego more than $ 22 m in retention bonuses to which they would be entitled if the agreed merger of their two companies goes ahead .
the revelation , contained in a regulatory filing on thursday , comes amid widespread shareholder concern about hp ' s planned acquisition of compaq for about $ 24 bn .
the sons of hp ' s two co - founders have criticised the deal , raising doubts that shareholders would back hp ' s takeover of its rival . their opposition has prompted speculation that carly fiorina , hp ' s chief executive , would be forced out if the deal was voted down .
she would have been entitled to receive retention bonuses totalling $ 8 m , equal to double the sum of her current salary and target annual bonus . but she has declined to accept the right to participate in this programme .
michael capellas , her counterpart at compaq , was eligible to receive retention bonuses totaling $ 14 . 4 m , equivalent to three times the sum of his current base salary and target annual bonus .
their decisions are shown in a so - called s - 4 formal merger prospectus prepared by hp and filed with the securities and exchange commission . the filing outlines the managements ' arguments for the merger .
despite ms fiorina ' s decision , hp has agreed to a retention payment programme for key executives that could total about $ 33 m if all of them remain employed until payment of the second installment of their retention bonuses . in addition , ms fiorina and several other officials are negotiating new contracts that would give them higher salaries , the potential for bonuses and stock options .
the compensation plan could cost as much as $ 22 . 4 m if all key figures remain with the merged company for a certain period of time .
the decision by ms fiorina and mr capellas comes after ken lay , chairman and chief executive of enron , was prompted by shareholder outcry to announce he would not take the more than $ 60 m he was entitled to after enron agreed a rescue bid by rival energy group dynegy .
the s - 4 noted that walter hewlett , the lone hp director who has opposed the combination , is a member of hp ' s compensation committee .
meanwhile , the us federal trade commission has asked hewlett - packard and compaq to provide them with additional information and other material concerning their proposed merger . while it is a standard regulatory practice , the companies warned that the request under federal law would in effect extend the waiting period for completion of the merger until august 30 next year .
the s - 4 did not provide a date for the shareholder votes required to consummate the $ 24 bn deal .
hp on wednesday surprised the market by posting fiscal fourth quarter results that far exceeded analysts ' expectations .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
stock drop cuts enron retirement package
11 / 16 / 2001
associated press newswires
copyright 2001 . the associated press . all rights reserved .
portland , ore . ( ap ) - employees of portland general electric are in shock after watching their retirement savings dry up along with the stock of energy giant enron , pge ' s parent company .
the sting isn ' t helped by the fact that the selloff coincided with a lockdown that forced employees to hold the stock in their 401 ( k ) retirement plans .
stock prices have plummeted more than 70 percent since oct . 16 , when enron announced a $ 618 million third - quarter loss .
the loss stemmed largely from investment write - offs that led to the dismissal of the company ' s chief financial officer and now are being investigated by the securities and exchange commission .
on oct . 17 , houston - based enron " locked down " the 401 ( k ) accounts , meaning employees were not allowed to sell their enron stock or make any other changes to their plans . the freeze lasted until wednesday .
peggy fowler , pge chief executive officer , said the lockdown was the result of a long - planned change in retirement fund managers and acknowledged that " the timing couldn ' t have been worse . "
for 2 , 700 pge employees with enron 401 ( k ) plans , the slump has decimated their nest eggs .
" we couldn ' t get out , we just sat there and watched our nest eggs go down to nothing , " said roy rinard , a pge lineman from boring with all of his 401 ( k ) plan in enron stock . rinard , 54 , said his account has dropped in value from more than $ 472 , 000 a year ago to $ 238 , 000 at the time of the freeze to about $ 70 , 000 now .
" i just feel like i ' ve been stolen from and lied to , " said alan kaseweter , 43 , a pge service department employee who had almost all of his 401 ( k ) invested in enron stock . kaseweter , of redlands , said his account has dwindled from $ 348 , 000 a year ago to $ 115 , 500 at the time of the freeze to $ 36 , 000 .
enron and pge employees must accept enron stock as the company ' s matching contribution to their 401 ( k ) accounts . only employees over 50 and retirees are allowed to roll it over to another investment .
enron seemed like a good bet . the stock climbed 475 percent between 1995 and dec . 31 , 2000 .
enron purchased pge in 1997 , while it was reinventing itself into a cutting - edge energy trading company . it took staple products such as natural gas and electricity and attempted to trade them like other commodities .
reports surfaced about partnerships founded by enron chief financial officer andrew fastow . the partnerships borrowed money on enron ' s behalf , which allowed enron to keep the debt off its books .
fastow left the company , and the u . s . securities and exchange commission opened an investigation .
on nov . 8 , enron said it was restating earnings for the past five years , in effect admitting that it had inflated profits .
at the same time , enron froze employees ' 401 ( k ) accounts . enron decided in july that it would hire new administrators for the retirement program . the changeover required about a month .
enron directors and executives dumped stock through much of the past 12 months , selling more than $ 136 million worth in all - a fact prominently mentioned in recent shareholder lawsuits against the company .
investors have also filed five lawsuits against enron ' s executives and directors , including former pge chief executive kenneth l . harrison .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
city - international power looks for purchases .
by roland gribben .
11 /