Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 17 / 01 - 11 / 18 / 01
they left behind big piles of money
houston chronicle , 11 / 18 / 01
economic news helps stocks , not bonds
the new york times , 11 / 18 / 01
bullish , and patient , on energy stocks
the new york times , 11 / 18 / 01
aquila energy makes provision for dynegy withdrawal , ft says
bloomberg , 11 / 18 / 01
a tale of greed and hubris
sarasota herald - tribune , 11 / 18 / 01
counting blessings along with the losses
los angeles times , 11 / 18 / 01
don ' t be a pudd ' n ' head , diversify
the washington post , 11 / 18 / 01
wessex water ` to be sold '
the independent - london , 11 / 18 / 01
uk press : westlb makes grab for gbplb wessex water
dow jones international news , 11 / 18 / 01
quanta steels itself against takeover bid
houston chronicle , 11 / 17 / 01
business briefs / houston & texas
houston chronicle , 11 / 17 / 01
at enron , the big dogs ate first
portland oregonian , 11 / 17 / 01
finance week - from dealing to reeling .
financial times , 11 / 17 / 01
world stock markets - bears take upper hand on wall st .
financial times , 11 / 17 / 01
in brief / energy pension funds consider action against enron
los angeles times , 11 / 17 / 01
enron investors hope filing will shed more light on finances
bloomberg , 11 / 17 / 01
uk : trade , bank buyers circle enron ' s wessex water - reports .
reuters english news service , 11 / 17 / 01
a user ' s guide to living in calgary : people moving from houston find the cities much alike
national post , 11 / 17 / 01
westlb offers to buy enron ' s u . k . water unit , newspaper says
bloomberg , 11 / 17 / 01
enron closes on $ 550 million loan from j . p . morgan , salomon
bloomberg , 11 / 16 / 01
business
jim barlow
they left behind big piles of money
jim barlow
staff
11 / 18 / 2001
houston chronicle
2 star
1
( copyright 2001 )
will wonders never cease ? last week a couple of heavy hitters left money on the table .
mark mcgwire , the home - run - hitting baseball player for st . louis , retired . and he let it be known that he never signed a two - year , $ 30 million contract his agent negotiated last spring . why ? because he wanted to find out if his injured right knee would allow him to play as well as he had before . it didn ' t , and he decided he wasn ' t worth that kind of money .
then ken lay , chairman of enron corp . , said he won ' t take the $ 60 . 6 million he had coming to him in a severance agreement that comes into play when enron is sold to dynegy corp .
of course , neither mcgwire nor lay will ever have to consider my fallback retirement plan - sacking groceries at the supermarket , carrying them to the car and hoping for a big tip . still , it was a class act on both their parts . mcgwire only hit . 187 last season , well below his lifetime average . and lay ? well , let ' s say that rarely in the history of american capitalism has a company sunk as fast as enron .
remember that earlier this year its stock hit a top of $ 82 a share . now it ' s hovering in the single - digit level , and enron is being forced to sell itself to a smaller rival .
the stock price incentive
how did enron get into this position ? put the blame on the company ' s relentless drive to push up its stock price . and a big reason for that push comes from the way american companies compensate top executives .
in the last couple of decades , executive compensation has soared . the average chief executive officer today makes 531 times as much in salary , bonuses and stock options as the average factory worker .
apologists for executive pay say these kinds of figures really aren ' t relevant . most of the money top executives receive doesn ' t come from base pay or bonuses but from stock options .
such options usually work this way . executives are given hundreds or thousands of shares of stock that they can only buy from the company at a future date . the sales price can be anything from 10 cents to the price of the stock on the date the options were granted . if the stock increases past the exercise price in the option , the executive can buy the stock and then sell it , making big bucks . it the stock has dropped below the option price - it ' s underwater , in the jargon - then those options are worthless .
granting options aligns the interests of the top executives with the shareholders , those who favor this sort of incentive say . and that ' s true , if you talking about in - and - out traders . but it ' s not true if we ' re looking out for the interests of the majority who hold stocks for the long term .
keeping the debt hidden
keeping its stock price soaring was what brought down enron .
to hype the stock , enron ' s execs were hiding the debt it took on to fuel its amazing growth and some of its dicier investments , in partnerships . enron was supposedly only a minority partner in these deals . that way it could move a large portion of its debt off its books in that partnership . that , in turn , made the company ' s earnings look better .
when enron ' s executives finally fessed up , they had to write down their profits over the past few years by 20 percent . but the real irony here is that 80 percent is still a heck of a lot of money . but by that time , the majority of shareholders simply had no faith in enron ' s bookkeeping .
now look at lay ' s compensation . in 1999 he exercised stock options and made $ 44 million on them . in 2000 , sales of options brought him $ 123 million , and this year about $ 26 million , according to a study published by bloomberg news .
was lay deliberating deceiving investors to keep his stock options profitable ? i don ' t think so . he was simply following the latest fad in corporate governance . he was aligning himself with the interests of the shareholders .
the shareholders were happy with that high stock price . nobody - besides some stock analysts - complained about enron ' s often - impenetrable bookkeeping until that stock price started to fall .
would enron ' s bookkeeping have been different if top executives received fewer stock options ? maybe .
fewer stock options would mean lower pay for the top guys . and no one would want that job if he were only going to make $ 10 million a year instead of $ 100 million .
just kidding .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section 3
databank
economic news helps stocks , not bonds
by jonathan fuerbringer
11 / 18 / 2001
the new york times
page 17 , column 3
c . 2001 new york times company
stocks rallied and bonds plunged last week as investors digested some positive reports about the economy . inflation at the consumer level declined last month , retail sales surged after falling in september , and weekly initial unemployment claims slowed .
all this news led some investors to conclude that the economy might not be as troubled as it appeared to be in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks . that was good for the stock market , but very bad for the many bond investors who had been assuming the worst .
for the week , the nasdaq composite index rose 70 . 10 points , or 3 . 8 percent , to 1 , 898 . 58 , while the dow jones industrial average climbed 258 . 99 points , or 2 . 7 percent , to 9 , 866 . 99 . the standard & poor ' s 500 - stock index gained 18 . 33 points , or 1 . 6 percent , to 1 , 138 . 65 .
but bond prices tumbled while yields , which move in the opposite direction , soared . the yield on the treasury ' s 10 - year note rose to 4 . 85 percent , from 4 . 31 percent a week ago , the biggest weekly move in percentage terms since the note was first regularly issued 25 years ago . the jump in rates also showed that many investors no longer expect federal reserve policy makers to cut short - term interest rates when they meet next month . jonathan fuerbringer
chart : ' ' stocks in the news ' ' amr nyse : amr the stock of the parent company of american airlines , along with other airline companies , rebounded on factors including lower oil prices and passage of the aviation security bill . friday ' s close : $ 20 . 06 week ' s change : + 10 . 65 % est . ' 01 p / e : - - dynegy nyse : dyn as part of its planned $ 9 billion acquisition of enron , dynegy will receive the right to acquire northern natural gas , a potentially lucrative pipeline system , even if the larger deal is not completed . friday ' s close : $ 42 . 47 week ' s change : + 9 . 57 % est . ' 01 p / e : 20 . 29 home depot nyse : hd the nation ' s largest home - improvement chain said its third - quarter profit rose 20 percent over the year - earlier period . friday ' s close : $ 45 . 80 week ' s change : + 8 . 76 % est . ' 01 p / e : 36 . 03 dell computer nnm : dell rebounding from a loss in the second quarter , dell reported a third - quarter profit of $ 429 mil lion . the company also predict d that pc sales would increase later this year . friday ' s close : $ 26 . 60 week ' s change : + 3 . 30 % est . ' 01 p / e : 41 . 05 sungard data systems nyse : sds an appeals court rejected the government ' s effort to stop sungard from buying a unit of comdisco , which filed for bankruptcy protection in july , while an antitrust investigation proceeds . friday ' s close : $ 28 . 64 week ' s change : + 9 . 56 % est . ' 01 p / e : 32 . 11 yahoo nnm : yhoo wall street analysts expressed confidence in the turnaround prospects of the company after it outlined plans to increase fee - based revenue and to reduce its work force . friday ' s close : $ 15 . 47 week ' s change : + 12 . 76 % est . ' 01 p / e : 309 . 40 philip morris nyse : mo philip morris says it plans to change its name to the altria group , pending approval by shareholders . friday ' s close : $ 48 . 13 week ' s change : + 2 . 78 % est . ' 01 p / e : 11 . 90 cv therapeutics nnm : cvtx the biotechnology company said clinical trials of ranolazine showed that the drug , which it developed , was effective in treating the chest pain of angina . friday ' s close : $ 51 . 67 week ' s change : + 48 . 97 % est . ' 01 p / e : - - ( source : bloomberg financial markets )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section 3
investing
bullish , and patient , on energy stocks
by jan m . rosen
11 / 18 / 2001
the new york times
page 8 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
despite last week ' s plunge in the price of crude oil and in shares of big oil companies , some wall street analysts remain upbeat about the long - term prospects for energy stocks .
' ' these very dramatic downturns are great buying opportunities , ' ' said tina vital , an oil and gas analyst at standard & poor ' s , who recommends a broad group of integrated oil companies , including exxon mobil , chevrontexaco , royal dutch / shell , bp and totalfinaelf . ' ' they have excellent management , a top dividend yield and are a safe haven for investors , ' ' she said , provided that investors are patient and can bear short - term swings .
last week ' s price declines were set off by russian oil companies ' refusal to accept demands by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries for big production cuts . they were a reminder that the sector is extremely volatile . ' ' oil could go to $ 10 a barrel short term , ' ' she said , but there is no certainty of that . the oil producers could reach an agreement by january , sending prices upward . over the long term , she expects to see production cuts .
demand for energy has grown only 0 . 5 percent this year , and prices have been declining for some time for both crude oil and gasoline - - as drivers have seen at the gas pump . west texas intermediate crude closed friday at $ 18 . 03 on the new york mercantile exchange , up 58 cents from its thursday close , the lowest since june 1999 . but an economic recovery , expected by late 2002 , could cause demand to pick up , analysts say .
as oil prices have dropped , so have the prices of most oil stocks , but not as much as the overall market since the beginning of 2000 . over that period , the s . & p . energy index has lost 8 percent , while the s . & p . 500 - stock index is down 23 percent .
a report issued last week by the energy department said that while the sept . 11 terrorist attacks had intensified the country ' s economic slowdown , ' ' they are not expected to result in any long - term volatility in energy markets . ' ' the report estimated that commercial energy demand would rise 1 . 7 percent a year through 2020 , instead of the 1 . 2 percent predicted only a year ago . its predictions assume increased use of computers and office equipment , and slower increases in fuel efficiency for cars and trucks .
while they warn of the possibility of wild price shifts in the months ahead , other analysts are similarly bullish for the long term . l . bruce lanni , senior oil analyst at a . g . edwards his 12 - month target is $ 34 . ' ' we remain confident , ' ' he said , ' ' that the company ' s annual oil and gas production should grow by about 4 percent , on average , over the next several years . ' '
conoco ' s debt , at 55 percent of capital , is relatively high , but he expects the company ' s strong cash flow - - it equaled $ 5 . 33 a share last year - - to reduce the debt level to 46 percent next year and to 38 percent in 2003 . the company ' s after - tax interest cost is only 3 . 5 percent , he said .
mr . lanni also favors kerr - mcgee , a natural gas exploration and production company , and bp , calling both undervalued . he regards exxon mobil , royal dutch / shell and chevrontexaco as fully priced , so he is not recommending buying them now . ' ' if you own them , hold them , ' ' he said .
william featherston , executive director and an oil and gas exploration analyst at ubs warburg , said he felt ' ' near - term caution but medium - term optimism for sustainably higher ' ' natural gas prices . he said he would encourage investors to consider buying shares of exploration and production companies over the next two months . his top picks are apache , kerr - mcgee and eog resources .
such stocks are highly volatile , he said . they are ' ' trading - oriented vehicles , and short - term volatility in commodity prices generally provides the most attractive entry and exit points , ' ' he said . ' ' while natural gas prices declined throughout most of this year , prices rose at a startling pace , from $ 1 . 75 per million cubic feet at the end of september to over $ 3 per million cubic feet within weeks . ' '
he cited three reasons for the price rally : a decline in gas surpluses , predictions of a colder - than - normal winter and what he has called ' ' pathetic third - quarter natural gas production , ' ' despite record drilling activity .
the tangled finances of the enron corporation were also a factor in the recent price increase for natural gas futures , he said . enron , which marketed 25 billion cubic feet a day of natural gas , or more than 40 percent of the nation ' s demand , is under investigation by the securities and exchange commission and announced a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity from deals with partnerships involving its former chief financial officer . it also reported a third - quarter loss and restated earlier earnings . enron has agreed to be taken over by dynegy , a smaller rival , for about $ 9 billion in stock . dynegy is also assuming about $ 13 billion in debt .
anxiety over whether the enron investigation would disrupt deliveries or have other market repercussions led to an increase in prices . while it is ' ' difficult to quantify the enron factor , ' ' mr . featherston said , the short - term effects on natural gas prices seem to be over .
other factors , of course , could also mean a bumpy ride for energy investors over the next several months . the status of the war against terrorism , president bush ' s decision to fill the strategic petroleum reserve , thus helping opec in reducing excess global capacity , and a united nations review of the food - for - oil deal with iraq expected in december could each have a significant impact on battered oil prices .
nevertheless , ms . vital said , for the long term , energy will probably be in short supply , and new sources must be developed . so she also likes the prospects of two drilling companies , noble drilling and nabors industries . both took a beating last week , along with the oil companies , so again she sees buying opportunities .
bern fleming , portfolio manager of the axp utilities income fund in minneapolis , who has stakes in dynegy , duke energy and dominion resources , said all three had good prospects for growth , thanks to a mix of assets , ' ' management i respect and solid business plans . ' '
photo : workers at an oil well near lafayette , la . although oil prices have plunged , analysts say there is still good long - term potential for the stocks of energy companies . ( marty katz for the new york times ) chart : ' ' power play ' ' energy stocks have generally outperformed the overall market since the beginning of 2000 . graph shows conoco shares , s . & p . energy composite , and the s . & p . 500 index since january 2000 . ( source : bloomberg financial markets )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
aquila energy makes provision for dynegy withdrawal , ft says
2001 - 11 - 18 19 : 52 ( new york )
houston , nov . 19 ( bloomberg ) - - aquila energy corp . is one of
several energy traders limiting its trading with enron corp . in
case dynegy inc . pulls out of its bid for the company , the
financial times said , citing aquila .
aquila said it began making contingency plans in case dynegy
withdrew from its $ 24 billion takeover of enron , the paper
reported .
enron , the largest energy trader , decided to sell after its
shares plunged this year and a federal investigation of accounting
irregularities limited its ability to finance operations . enron ' s
collapse would have caused upheaval in energy markets , where the
company does one - quarter of all gas and power trades .
dynegy ' s agreement to buy enron allows it to withdraw from
the transaction under certain circumstances , the ft said .
perspectives
a tale of greed and hubris
waldo proffitt
11 / 18 / 2001
sarasota herald - tribune
all
f 2
( copyright 2001 )
for anyone not already disenchanted with the idea of total deregulation of public utilities , the most recent installment of the miserable enron story as it unfolded last week should serve as a convincing example of the folly of relying on unregulated profit - driven enterprises to supply our energy .
a year ago enron was the darling of wall street , the poster boy for the utility industry , its stock selling for about $ 85 a share . last week its stock was worth about 10 percent of that and the company had agreed to be bought by a competitor . there was fear the company ' s bond rating might fall to the " junk " level .
what happened ? it will take months , if not years , to untangle the details , but it is clear that the main culprit was greed , closely followed by hubris .
not too many years ago enron was a small , struggling , gas pipeline company in houston . as deregulation spread to more and more states , enron began acquiring pipelines , gas producers and utilities .
it also acquired friends in high places , especially the bush family and their key political advisers . and , it discovered it could make money faster by selling and trading energy than by producing it . enron sold many of its generating plants and became the biggest " power broker " in the nation .
though it was by no means the largest winner in the con game that bilked california consumers of tens of billions of dollars , enron was one of the first power barons to take advantage of california ' s flawed deregulation law - - virtually written by in - state and out - of - state utility companies .
the california fiasco soured ( probably ) most americans on utility deregulation , but enron was not singled out for calumny , and management saw no reason to examine its business ethics .
contrarywise . management had visions of even greater profits , which it felt no obligation to share with ordinary stockholders . the chief financial officer and other high - ranking executives set up affiliated or subsidiary partnerships which made deals with enron . i do not understand the details of these arrangements , but neither do independent accountants , the securities and exchange commission or congressional investigators . it does seem clear that the enron insiders made millions for themselves .
enron acknowledges , without explaining , that stockholder equity dropped $ 1 . 2 billion in the last quarter and that it had for the last five years overstated profits by some $ 600 million . whether this was by design or by mistake is in dispute , but it is the sort of thing which tends to undermine the confidence of investors .
so much for greed . back to hubris . it seems not unlikely that enron ' s leaders felt they might not be punished for a modest amount of corner - cutting because they had friends in high places .
the chief executive , kenneth l . lay , was and is a personal friend of george w . bush and has easy access to the white house . for many months after the new administration took office , karl rove , bush ' s top political strategist , owned enron stock valued at $ 100 , 000 to $ 250 , 000 , and sold it only after he had been able to secure a ruling that he did not have to pay capital gains tax immediately because he sold to avoid a conflict of interest . lawrence lindsey , the president ' s chief economic coordinator , and i . lewis libby , vice president cheney ' s chief of staff , owned stock in enron , and lindsey was paid $ 50 , 000 last year as a consultant for enron .
enron and its employees gave more than anyone else to bush ' s four political campaigns - - one ( unsuccessful ) for congress , two for governor and one for president . in 2000 , enron and its employees gave $ 113 , 000 to bush ' s campaign , $ 250 , 000 to the republican national committee , and $ 300 , 000 to the presidential inauguration committee .
cabinet appointments affecting energy policy , key sub - cabinet appointments , administration action or inaction in the california energy mess , and the overall energy policy of the administration could hardly have been more favorable to the interests of enron .
and now a couple of questions : is it possible the unusual financial maneuvers by enron went unnoticed or even unsuspected by all the savvy texas oilmen in the bush administration ? were those of them with heavy investments in enron unconcerned about the conduct of the company ? was enron right in thinking its friends in government would not be in a hurry to investigate or to reprimand ?
or , in light of our preoccupation with terrorism , will the enron case get much attention from the federal government ? or from voters ?
waldo proffitt is the former editor of the herald - tribune .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones financial desk
market beat
counting blessings along with the losses
tom petruno
times staff writer
11 / 18 / 2001
los angeles times
home edition
c - 1
copyright 2001 / the times mirror company
try finishing this sentence : " the best thing about my experience as an investor in 2001 was . . . "
many americans , contemplating the losses they ' ve suffered this year in the stock market , might say there was nothing " best " about what happened to them - - in fact , nothing good at all , perhaps other than that it might have been worse .
with share prices on the rise again , the damage to portfolios has been lessened . even so , stocks will have to post strong gains in the next six weeks to keep this from being the market ' s worst calendar year since 1977 .
the blue - chip standard & poor ' s 500 index rose 1 . 6 % last week , but it ' s still down 13 . 8 % year to date .
yet those losses , while certainly not trivial ( especially when they ' re yours ) , can obscure what arguably are some very positive aspects of this year ' s experiences .
with investing , adversity can be a more important teacher than success . if you ' re having trouble this thanksgiving week finding reasons to be thankful about anything investment - related , try these on for size :
* " asset allocation " is no longer just a quaint theory . the paramount investing rule has always been to spread your money around to reduce risk . but it took the worst stock bear market in 25 years to bring this lesson home for many people who thought equities only rose in value .
now , millions of investors have a far better appreciation for just how much they can lose in stocks - - and how bonds and short - term cash savings can offset market losses and preserve capital .
it has been a hard lesson , to be sure . but investors who take asset allocation to heart will be laying a much more solid foundation for their money in the long run . and don ' t underestimate what that can mean for your peace of mind long term .
* the wisdom of saving money on a regular basis has been relearned . in the late 1990 s , many economists lamented how the u . s . savings rate continued to shrink . some people felt there was little need to put significant new sums into savings when the stocks or stock mutual funds they owned seemed to be rising nonstop .
in other words , many americans were letting the stock market do their saving for them when share prices were rising 20 % or more each year .
now , with shares down and with the likelihood of much more moderate returns on stocks in this decade , it ' s clear that many people will have to find a way to save regularly if they ' re going to meet their long - term financial goals , especially retirement .
this may not be a pleasant reality , but it ' s better for most people to have faced this fact sooner rather than later , while there may be time to make up lost ground .
* a healthy skepticism has replaced mindless euphoria about stocks and those who tout them . the market ' s slide has discredited a legion of wall street analysts , money managers and others whose knowledge , understanding and judgment were clearly lacking , in retrospect .
investors have come to see that having blind faith in those who present themselves as " experts " is a highly dangerous strategy , if it can be called a strategy at all .
sure , it may have been more fun when technology stocks were shooting the moon and nobody had much use for reviewing a company ' s fundamentals . but that wasn ' t investing - - it was speculating , and on a massive , and ultimately ruinous , scale .
people have learned to be less trusting about what others say about the market , and that is more likely to be beneficial than detrimental to their portfolios in the long run .
just ask anyone who shifted their entire 401 ( k ) retirement savings sum into aggressive - growth mutual funds in the first quarter of 2000 - - right before the market peaked - - because of the bullish comments of some 25 - year - old tech stock analyst . those investors aren ' t likely to make a move like that again .
* free - market forces are weeding out the weak players and the phonies . capitalism may be harsh , but it ' s efficient when the good times end and it ' s time to find out which companies truly have talent and staying power - - and deserve more capital .
hundreds of dot - coms have failed , but who really misses them ? is it any harder to find what you want on the internet ? it probably would have been much worse for all concerned if those companies had sucked up investors ' funds for another year instead of failing when they did .
but the market isn ' t just eliminating small companies that never had much of a future . the financial near - collapse of energy giant enron corp . exposed a business that twisted accounting rules to its own benefit - - to the point that the company now concedes that financial statements all the way back to 1997 " should not be relied upon . "
also to be weeded out , though over a longer time period , will be mutual fund managers whose performance running other peoples ' money has been a nightmare for those investors - - meaning , the returns produced have been far worse than what the investors would have achieved in the average fund in that particular sector .
these managers know who they are - - and , hopefully , their shareholders know by now as well , and will vote with their feet .
the free market also is reminding cartels just how tough it is to control prices .
once again , the organization of petroleum exporting countries has lost its ability to prop up crude oil prices , which have sunk to two - year lows amid the weak global economy . that ' s lousy for opec , but it ' s great for every energy consumer .
* the market ' s woes have altered many investors ' priorities for the better . the wild bull market of the late 1990 s demanded peoples ' attention , and got it .
for some , stocks became an obsession . their portfolios dominated their lives , especially if they were actively trading shares . they believed they were going to be rich , or richer , and that it was all because of how smart they were .
now , most people have been humbled by the market . in the process , some have realized that they don ' t want their mood determined by their portfolio ' s day - to - date price changes .
the sept . 11 terrorist attacks , of course , also changed many peoples ' view of what truly matters to them .
money is important , but you aren ' t your stocks , and they aren ' t you . life is more than a daily stock quote .
*
tom petruno can be reached at tom . petruno @ latimes . com . for recent columns on the web , go to www . latimes . com / petruno .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
financial
investing james k . glassman
don ' t be a pudd ' n ' head , diversify
james k . glassman
11 / 18 / 2001
the washington post
final
hol
copyright 2001 , the washington post co . all rights reserved
warren buffett , who was probably the greatest investor of the 20 th century , is fond of quoting the salacious actress mae west as saying , " too much of a good thing can be wonderful . " in the market , such a motto would lead you to avoid diversification and instead concentrate your portfolio in stocks you really , really like .
peter lynch , who was probably the best mutual fund manager of the 20 th century , calls spreading yourself too thin " diworseification . "
smart , witty and brilliant at picking stocks , buffett and lynch may not need diversification , but the rest of us do . when you own one stock , you ' re out on a limb . for example , very few analysts - - with or without a conflict of interest - - predicted that shares of enron , the energy and trading company , would tumble by 90 percent in a year . put all your eggs in a basket like that and you end up with a gooey mess . the more stocks you own - - as long as they are in different industries - - the more the overall riskiness of your portfolio is modulated .
the reason you don ' t want a super - risky portfolio is simple : while warren buffett may be calm and prescient enough to ride out severe dips in the value of his holdings , most investors are not . a portfolio that increases in price by 10 percent each and every year is worth exactly the same at the end of three years as a portfolio that falls by half the first year , rises by three - quarters the second and rises by 52 percent the third . but reasonable investors prefer the consistent ride . it prevents them from doing something stupid , such as selling all their stocks after losing half their money during that first disastrous year .
consider the sad case of james d . mccall , who earlier this month resigned as manager of the merrill lynch focus twenty mutual fund . two years ago , merrill wanted mccall ' s services so desperately that the firm went to court to pry mccall away from his previous employer , pilgrim baxter , where he rang up impressive gains in the late 1990 s . ( his big success was called pbhg large cap 20 . ) and when they got mccall , merrill ' s brokers raised more than $ 1 . 5 billion from their clients for him to invest . while the average growth - stock mutual fund owns about 100 stocks , with the top 10 holdings representing about one - fourth of the portfolio ' s total value , mccall specialized in what are called " concentrated portfolios . " in the case of merrill lynch focus twenty , he owned , as the name implies , just 20 stocks . at last report , his top 10 holdings accounted for a whopping two - thi