Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 20 / 01
usa : s & p may still cut enron , expects dynegy merger .
reuters english news service , 11 / 20 / 01
in the money : enron melts as many see merger in jeopardy
dow jones news service , 11 / 20 / 01
dynegy won ' t comment on merger partner enron ' s 10 - q
dow jones news service , 11 / 20 / 01
enron ' s credit rating remains on negative watch , s & p says
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
accounting watchdogs to examine auditors ' peer review process
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
newpower plugs cash drain by revamping power pact with enron
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
enron falls after company cuts earnings , says $ 690 mln note due
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
options report : traders wary as mkt shows ' lack of fear '
dow jones capital markets report , 11 / 20 / 01
usa : reliant surprised by latest enron disclosure .
reuters english news service , 11 / 20 / 01
stockwatch enron slides after warning on debt , cut in q 3 eps
afx news , 11 / 20 / 01
andersen - enron audit prompts look at peer reviews ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
energy cos limit business with enron after 10 q - traders
dow jones energy service , 11 / 20 / 01
us ferc denies regulatory waiver for dynegy lng terminal
dow jones energy service , 11 / 20 / 01
usa : update 2 - enron stock hits decade low after debt warning .
reuters english news service , 11 / 20 / 01
usa : enron shares slide after debt warning .
reuters english news service , 11 / 20 / 01
stock market analysis : looking out to next year
cnnfn : market coverage - morning , 11 / 20 / 01
deregulation not seen leaderless after enron ' s collapse
dow jones energy service , 11 / 20 / 01
enron falls amid concern debt threatens dynegy bid ( update 6 )
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
enron bbb - rating on creditwatch negative - s & p
afx news , 11 / 20 / 01
usa : s & p may still cut enron , expects dynegy merger .
11 / 20 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
new york , nov 20 ( reuters ) - enron corp . ' s debt ratings may still fall to junk status , standard & poor ' s said on tuesday , a day after the energy trading giant said it may have to pay off a $ 690 million note next week , and owes $ 9 . 15 billion in debt and other obligations by the end of 2002 .
s & p also said enron ' s near - term liquidity position is " expected to be sufficient " to allow it to merge with smaller houston - based rival dynegy inc . . the merger , announced this month , is expected to close in the third quarter of 2002 .
s & p , which said it may cut houston - based enron ' s " bbb - minus " and " a - 3 " long - and short - term unsecured debt ratings , each one notch above junk , said the chance enron will have to pay off the note raises " liquidity issues , " but that " given the alignment of interests between enron and the banks , " enron ' s ability to renegotiate the note " will be successful . "
enron said in its quarterly report , filed monday with the securities and exchange commission , that it has less than $ 2 billion of available cash and credit lines . it said in the filing the recent s & p downgrade to " bbb - minus " may force it to pay off the $ 690 million note by tuesday if it doesn ' t find collateral to guarantee the debt of an affiliated partnership .
enron shares traded tuesday afternoon on the new york stock exchange at $ 6 . 99 , down $ 2 . 07 , or 22 . 9 percent , on volume topping 53 million shares . they have fallen more than 91 percent in 2001 amid accounting problems , earnings restatements , a federal investigation and management changes .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
in the money : enron melts as many see merger in jeopardy
by carol s . remond
11 / 20 / 2001
dow jones news service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
a dow jones newswires column
new york - ( dow jones ) - investors are running for the exits as doubts about enron corp . ' s ( ene ) planned merger with dynegy inc . ( dyn ) mount .
debt and equity markets are taking news of enron ' s never ending credit woes with renewed pessimism tuesday , sending the company ' s stock down almost 24 % and its bonds sharply lower .
and with so much riding on dynegy ' s financial support , risk arbitrageurs , those investors who bet on the stock price of companies involved in merger , aren ' t willing to play . " there is just too much risk , " said a trader at a new york risk arbitrage firm . " nobody wants to even get close to the deal . "
perhaps most telling about the uncertainty surrounding enron and the merger with dynegy is the fact that even a 68 % risk premium over the value of the dynegy deal has so far failed to attract investors . " the deal appears in real jeopardy here , " a bond trader said .
under the merger plan , enron holders would receive 0 . 2685 dynegy share for each enron share . at dynegy ' s current share price of $ 41 . 77 , that means the value of the deal is about $ 11 . 20 a share for enron holders . but enron stock recently traded as low as $ 6 . 68 a share , almost 68 % below the value of the merger .
adding to doubts about enron ' s long - term viability , the company said in a delayed quarterly filing late monday that its ability to continue as a going concern depends on a number of factors , including being able to retain an investment grade credit rating .
dynegy declined to comment on whether its decision to merge with enron would be affected by the company ' s latest securities and exchange commission filing , including the disclosure that enron will have to repay $ 690 million in debt by next tuesday if it doesn ' t come up with collateral for a loan .
an enron spokeswoman wasn ' t available to comment on the merger plan .
among other bad news , enron ' s latest report warned investors that the company faces immediate demand for $ 3 . 9 billion in debt if its credit rating is downgraded any further .
earlier this month , standard & poor ' s corp . and moody ' s investors service cut enron ' s credit ratings to " bbb - " and " baa 3 " , just one notch higher than below - investment grade , or " junk " status . the rating agencies warned that they may cut their respective ratings again . neither s 201 - 938 - 2074 ; dow jones newswires
carol . remond @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
dynegy won ' t comment on merger partner enron ' s 10 - q
by christina cheddar
of dow jones newswires
11 / 20 / 2001
dow jones news service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - ( dow jones ) - dynegy inc . ( dyn ) declined tuesday to comment on whether its merger with enron corp . ( ene ) would be affected by the contents of enron ' s quarterly filing with the securities and exchange commission late monday .
in the 10 - q , which was filed five days past the sec deadline , enron revised its third - quarter earnings downward by 3 cents a share , and disclosed it may have to pay off a $ 690 million note owed to an affiliated partnership because a clause in a financial agreement was triggered by the reduction in enron ' s senior unsecured debt rating to triple - b - minus by standard 201 - 938 - 5166
christina . cheddar @ dowjones . com
( corrected 1 : 50 pm )
enron corp . ( ene ) must make arrangements to pay off a note owed to an affiliated partnership by nov . 27 , unless it finds collateral to guarantee the debt .
( an item published at 12 : 40 p . m . est misstated the date . )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron ' s credit rating remains on negative watch , s & p says
2001 - 11 - 20 15 : 05 ( new york )
enron ' s credit rating remains on negative watch , s & p says
new york , nov . 20 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . ' s credit rating
remained on negative watch by standard & poor ' s , a day after the
largest energy trader released its delayed third - quarter
regulatory filing .
shares of enron fell as much as 28 percent today , and its
bonds have also tumbled amid concern the company might run out of
cash before its takeover by dynegy inc .
accounting watchdogs to examine auditors ' peer review process
2001 - 11 - 20 13 : 32 ( new york )
accounting watchdogs to examine auditors ' peer review process
washington , nov . 20 ( bloomberg ) - - the accounting industry ' s
watchdog group plans to examine whether audit firms are conducting
adequate ` ` peer reviews ' ' of one another in light of arthur
andersen llp ' s failed audits of enron corp . , according to the
group ' s chairman , charles bowsher .
a detailed review of the enron case rests with the securities
and exchange commission , the public oversight board chairman said .
the board will look at the bigger issue , ` ` which is how can you
have peer reviews and still have these kinds of failures ? ' '
bowsher said .
the pob , a private group created to oversee the accounting
industry ' s self - governance as an advocate for the public , will
take the matter up at a closed meeting in washington on dec . 4 , he
said .
houston - based enron , the largest energy trader , earlier this
month reported that it overstated earnings by $ 586 million over
four - and - a - half years , inflated shareholder equity by $ 1 . 2 billion
because of an ` ` accounting error , ' ' and failed to consolidate
results of three affiliated partnerships into its balance sheet .
andersen , the world ' s fifth - largest accounting firm , served
as enron ' s outside auditor for more than a decade , assuring
investors that the company ' s financial statements conformed with
generally accepted accounting principles . the sec is investigating
some of enron ' s partnerships .
firms that audit public companies submit to ` ` peer reviews ' '
of their accounting practices by other accounting firms , a
practice aimed at assuring the investing public that the firm
complies with professional standards .
u . s . representative john dingell , a michigan democrat , said
yesterday in a letter to bowsher that none of the big five
accounting firms has ever issued a negative report against another
at the end of any peer review .
dingell skeptical
` ` there appears to be little reason for the public to have
faith in andersen or the peer review process , ' ' dingell wrote .
andersen responded saying it had faith in the accounting
profession ' s self - regulatory process , which the pob oversees .
a spokeswoman at deloitte & touche llp , andersen ' s peer -
reviewer , didn ' t return a telephone call seeking comment .
deloitte , the third - largest reviewer , is conducting a peer review
of andersen now .
bowsher , a former u . s . comptroller general , said the pob was
thinking of looking into peer review issues before receiving
dingell ' s letter .
` ` but this letter certainly focuses the issue , ' ' he said .
dingell ' s letter said the outside counsel to a special
committee of enron ' s board has retained deloitte & touche to help
it review the company ' s accounting problems .
conflict of interest ?
` ` do dt ' s dual roles create a conflict of interest ? ' '
dingell ' s letter asked . ` ` if dt finds numerous problems on enron ,
will dt try to ` whitewash ' or reconcile them in order to be able
to issue a clean peer review report ? ' '
dingell also questioned whether the money andersen pays
deloitte & touche for its current peer review will sway the
outcome .
` ` how will this influence , if at all , dt ' s ` independent '
judgment of andersen ' s work on enron ? ' ' the letter said .
bowsher responded : ` there ' s nothing we can do to change the
fact that deloitte & touche has done the previous reviews of
andersen . now , the question is should they ( the outside counsel )
use the same firm , or would it be better for them to use another
firm ? and that ' s pretty much their decision . ' '
bowsher said he has no knowledge of the accounting problems
at enron beyond what he ' s read in newspapers .
` ` it looks pretty bad , doesn ' t it ? , ' ' he said .
expanded power
dingell ' s request could prove a test of the pob ' s recently
expanded power and oversight . the group ' s charter was revised
earlier this year to make the pob the accounting industry ' s
premier watchdog group following criticisms by former sec chairman
arthur levitt and former sec chief accountant lynn turner . they
criticized the ` ` alphabet soup ' ' of accounting self - regulators and
voiced frustration with the industry ' s oversight of itself .
the new charter put the pob in charge of supervising the
setting of auditing and audit - independence standards and
monitoring how firms audit public companies . it also gave the
board , which is funded by the industry , the power to set its own
budget with no strings attached .
` ` now , for the first time , we will see if the pob is able to
act in the public interest and undertake the mandate presented to
it by congressman dingell and by its new charter , ' ' turner said .
` ` they didn ' t have the power in the past . ' '
the pob was set up in 1977 to represent the public interest
in overseeing the accounting industry ' s self - governance structure .
before its charter was revised , the pob was just one facet of the
enforcement of auditing industry standards regarding publicly
traded companies . now , it oversees the activities of these other
groups as well .
newpower plugs cash drain by revamping power pact with enron
2001 - 11 - 20 11 : 05 ( new york )
newpower plugs cash drain by revamping power pact with enron
washington , nov . 20 ( bloomberg ) - - newpower holdings inc . ,
one of the first companies to market power to homeowners
nationwide , recently plugged a cash drain brought on by plunging
energy prices .
the purchase , new york , company buys gas and electricity from
suppliers such as enron corp . and resells the energy to
residential and small business customers in states such as
pennsylvania , ohio , georgia and texas . newpower markets its
service as an alternative to local utilities in restructured
retail energy markets .
recent declines in energy prices have required newpower to
deposit $ 110 million in cash with enron , its largest shareholder
as well as a major creditor , leaving the company with about $ 33
million . according to a regulatory filing , enron recently agreed
to allow newpower to replace some of the cash collateral with
assets such as inventory and customer ious .
` ` we had a certain amount of cash tied up in those collateral
positions , ' ' said william jacobs , chief financial officer at
newpower . ` ` obviously , every dollar you put up there reduces the
amount of money you can spend other places . ' '
newpower represents a new breed of energy middleman that
contracts to provide power to retail customers at certain prices .
rather than owning power plants and gas pipelines , though , the
company simply purchases energy - - at slightly lower prices - - from
suppliers such as enron .
the contracts with enron require newpower to post collateral
with the supplier if the market price of natural gas or
electricity falls below the price set in the contract . and prices
for natural gas , used to fuel most electricity plants , have
plunged .
offsetting contracts
natural gas for december delivery fell 4 . 6 cents to $ 2 . 740
per million british thermal units on the new york mercantile
exchange . that is down from a record $ 10 . 10 per million british
thermal units last december .
newpower isn ' t at risk of losing money because the company
has offsetting contracts to sell the electricity and natural gas
at even higher prices to retail customers . it ' s more of a timing
issue : the company has had to post the collateral before the sales
under these retail contracts take place .
nevertheless , the need to provide collateral has weighed
heavily on newpower ' s balance sheet . cash and cash equivalents
have declined to $ 33 . 4 million on sept . 30 from $ 179 . 9 million on
dec . 31 , 2000 . meanwhile , restricted cash , such as the collateral
provided to enron and others , has ballooned to $ 180 . 2 million from
$ 16 . 2 million during the same period .
other transactions
on oct . 18 , according to a quarterly report filed with the
securities and exchange commission , enron agreed to permit
newpower to substitute inventory and customer receivables for as
much as $ 40 million of the cash collateral . this agreement will
expire jan . 4 , 2002 .
` ` assuming broadly stable forward energy prices , ' ' the filing
said , newpower ` ` has sufficient financial resources to conduct its
business until it secures permanent asset - backed or similar
financing . ' '
the company also said in the sec filing that it has recently
entered into a series of transactions ` ` to reduce the risk of
posting additional cash as collateral ' ' if energy prices fall
further . these transactions , which the company says are an
exception to its usual hedging strategy , ` ` increase the company ' s
exposure to commodity price fluctuations . ' '
joint venture
newpower was formed as a joint venture between enron , general
electric capital corp . , the california public employee ' s
retirement system , the ontario teachers ' pension plan board , and
the merchant banking arm of donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc . , now
owned by credit suisse group .
in october 2000 , the company held an initial public offering
of 24 million common shares at $ 21 each . newpower shares have
fallen more than 83 percent so far this year and now trade at
$ 1 . 60 each .
enron falls after company cuts earnings , says $ 690 mln note due
2001 - 11 - 20 09 : 39 ( new york )
enron falls after company cuts earnings , says $ 690 mln note due
houston , nov . 20 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . shares fell as
much as 10 percent after the biggest energy trader restated third -
quarter earnings for a second time this month and said it may have
to make early payment of a $ 690 million note next week .
shares of enron , which agreed to a takeover by rival dynegy
inc . this month after a financial crisis threatened it with
bankruptcy , fell 86 cents to $ 8 . 20 . dynegy fell $ 1 . 30 to $ 42 . 30 .
enron reduced third - quarter results by 3 cents a share ,
bringing the period ' s loss to 87 cents , or $ 664 million , according
to a u . s . securities & exchange commission filing . on nov . 8 ,
enron lowered earnings back to 1997 by $ 586 million to reflect
losses by affiliated partnerships that were wrongly kept off the
books . that included a third - quarter reduction of $ 17 million .
a drop in enron ' s senior unsecured debt rating to ` ` bbb - ' ' by
standard & poor ' s on nov . 12 may force enron to pay off the
$ 690 million note by nov . 27 if it doesn ' t find collateral to
guarantee the debt taken on by another affiliated partnership , the
company said in the filing released yesterday after the u . s . stock
market closed .
without repayment or collateral , investors in a partnership
that owns brazilian natural - gas assets can begin to liquidate the
partnership ' s assets , enron said . the company said it ' s working
with lenders to come up with an acceptable agreement on the debt .
enron used affiliated partnerships to raise money quickly and
take debt off its books . its shares plunged this year as investors
questioned whether the partnerships also were being used to hide
losses from failed investments .
chief executive officer kenneth lay said earlier this month
that buying back 62 million shares from two such partnerships cost
enron shareholders $ 1 . 2 billion in lost equity .
making good on debt owed by its whitewing affiliated
partnership may cut enron ' s fourth - quarter earnings , enron said .
enron is obligated to back whitewing by issuing junior convertible
preferred stock . because enron ' s stock has plunged , it may have to
write down its assets by $ 700 million , the filing said .
dynegy agreed nov . 9 to buy enron in a transaction now valued
at $ 25 billion in stock and assumed debt . both companies are based
in houston .
chevrontexaco corp . , the second - largest u . s . oil company ,
owns 26 percent of dynegy and is providing $ 2 . 5 billion in cash as
part of the enron buyout .
shares of chevrontexaco , based in san francisco , rose $ 1 . 63
to $ 84 . 54 .
options report : traders wary as mkt shows ' lack of fear '
by kopin tan and marcelo prince
of dow jones newswires
11 / 20 / 2001
dow jones capital markets report
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - ( dow jones ) - stock market investors may give thanks for stocks ' surge this fall . but in the options market , all that feel - good bullishness has only given investors pause .
with options sentiment indicators all showing what traders say is " a lack of fear , " option investors - many of them famously contrarian - are beginning to become more fearful . a number are hedging their long stock positions with options or becoming more bearish in their short - term outlooks , even with the dow jones industrial average moving technically into bull - market territory this week , and the nasdaq composite index up more than 37 % from its late - september low .
" is it possible the market could embark on a new sustained bull market ? i don ' t think so , " said jay shartsis , director of option trading at r . f . lafferty 201 - 938 - 2202
kopin . tan @ dowjones . com
( marcelo prince of dow jones newswires contributed to this report . )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
usa : reliant surprised by latest enron disclosure .
11 / 20 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
houston , nov 20 ( reuters ) - reliant resources inc . , a trading partner of beleaguered energy trading giant enron corp . , said on tuesday it was surprised by news that enron could be forced to pay $ 690 million in debt next week because of a credit rating downgrade .
shahid malik , reliant ' s president of energy trading and marketing , said his company was still evaluating the implications of the disclosure , which enron made in a filing with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) on monday .
" it ' s another surprise to the industry . we don ' t need any more surprises , " malik told reporters at a press presentation of a new index devised by houston - based reliant to track natural gas consumption .
reliant is a big wholesale electricity and natural gas trader and as such both a competitor and trading counterparty of enron .
malik said enron executives had not mentioned the potential payment of $ 690 million during a conference call with analysts on nov . 14 , two days before the credit rating downgrade that triggered it on nov . 12 .
enron agreed to be acquired by smaller rival dynegy inc . for some $ 9 billion in stock on nov . 9 after a collapse in investor confidence and snowballing financial problems brought enron to the brink of collapse .
dynegy wrote clauses into its agreement with enron that allow it to walk away from the deal if the problems at enron turn out to be far worse than previously disclosed , but dynegy executives have said it is unlikely those clauses will be invoked .
malik said that as a trading partner in wholesale energy markets , reliant will seek further clarification from enron about its financial position .
" my guess is that they are going to have a hard time coming up with the money , " he said .
malik said enron ' s bids and offers in the wholesale electricity and natural gas markets had become less competitive in recent weeks and that this had allowed reliant and other companies to capture some market share from enron .
reliant continued to do business with enron , he said , but was exercising " heightened caution " .
malik said reliant had not hired any traders away from enron recently and was currently well staffed . " but you always look for good people , you always look for talent , " he added .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
stockwatch enron slides after warning on debt , cut in q 3 eps
11 / 20 / 2001
afx news
( c ) 2001 by afp - extel news ltd
new york ( afx ) - shares of enron corp were sharply lower in midsession trade after the company warned yesterday that it faces heavy debt repayment obligations in less than 10 days , and has reduced its already - reported third - quarter earnings , dealers said .
at 12 . 10 pm , enron was down 1 . 16 usd , or 12 . 80 pct , at 7 . 90 . chevrontexaco inc affiliate dynegy inc , which agreed to acquire enron for 8 . 5 bln usd in cash and paper , was down 20 cents , or 0 . 46 pct , at 43 . 40 . chevrontexaco was up 3 . 15 usd at 86 . 06 .
the djia was down 71 . 69 points at 9 , 904 . 77 and the s & p 500 was down 5 . 42 points at 1145 . 24 .
in a 10 q filing with the securities and exchange commission , enron said that because of a credit rating downgrade last week , it now faces a debt payment of 690 mln usd by nov 27 .
it also restated its third - quarter earnings , lowering them by 3 cents per share .
wall street analysts , however , said the announcement was not surprising following the company ' s recent credit downgrades and enron ' s board investigation into the company ' s balance sheet .
they also said the news should not endanger enron ' s purchase by chevrontexaco affiliate dynegy .
credit suisse first boston analyst curt launer , who maintained his strong buy rating on enron , said he expects the company ' s 690 mln usd obligation will be renegotiated , and " satisfied out of ( enron ' s ) current cash position of 1 . 5 bln usd or collateralized . "
the analyst said he already had factored in a reduction in enron ' s fourth - quarter eps , to 40 cents from 48 previously , because of those expected issues . however , he now expects fourth - quarter eps of 25 - 35 cents .
as for the dynegy deal , launer sees a 90 pct probability that it will be completed , as dynegy " demonstrably benefits from it and chevron texaco supports it . "
yesterday , chevrontexaco chairman david o ' reilly reaffirmed support for the company ' s decision to invest 2 . 5 bln usd in dynegy .
the enron / dynegy deal does contain a " material adverse change ( mac ) " clause that could break the deal , but only if enron liabilities exceed 2 bln usd net of insurance or reserves .
in its 10 q filing , enron also detailed its plans to dispose of 8 bln usd of non - core assets , mainly international and broadband assets .
csfb ' s launer said his strong buy rating on enron , reflects his expectations that the deal spread , currently at about 30 pct , will narrow as progress is made toward a closing .
csfb disclosed that launer ' s immediate family owns shares of enron , estimated at less than 250 .
ng / gc for more information and to contact afx : www . afxnews . com and www . afxpress . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
andersen - enron audit prompts look at peer reviews ( updatel )
2001 - 11 - 20 16 : 13 ( new york )
andersen - enron audit prompts look at peer reviews ( updatel )
( adds information on accounting firms in seventh paragraph . )
washington , nov . 20 ( bloomberg ) - - an accounting industry
oversight group , prompted by concerns about arthur andersen llp ' s
failed audits of enron corp . , plans to look at the adequacy of
letting u . s . audit firms police one another , said the group ' s
chairman , charles bowsher .
the question for the public oversight board involves the
industry ' s system of ` ` peer reviews , ' ' in which auditors submit
their reports on public companies for examination by other
accounting firms , in an effort to assure investors the audits
comply with accounting standards .
` ` how can you have peer reviews and still have these kinds of
failures ? ' ' bowsher , a former u . s . comptroller general , asked in
an interview . the board ' s examination will consider the broad
issue of industry oversight , leaving specific review of enron ' s
audits to the securities and exchange commission , he said .
houston - based enron , the largest energy trader , this month
said it overstated earnings by $ 586 million over four - and - a - half
years , inflated shareholder equity by $ 1 . 2 billion because of an
accounting error , and failed to consolidate results of three
affiliated partnerships into its balance sheet .
the oversight board , created to supervise the accounting
industry ' s self - governance practices , will address the issue dec .
4 , bowsher said .
andersen , the world ' s fifth - largest accounting firm , was
enron ' s outside auditor for more than a decade , assuring investors
that the company ' s financial statements conformed with generally
accepted accounting principles . deloitte & touche llp has been the
firm assigned to do andersen ' s peer reviews .
dingell skeptical
u . s . representative john dingell , a michigan democrat ,
questioned the peer review process yesterday in a letter to
bowsher . none of the five biggest international accounting firms
has ever issued a negative peer - review report against another ,
dingell said . the so - called big five are andersen , deloitte &
touche , llc , kpmg llp , and ernst & young
lp .
` ` there appears to be little reason for the public to have
faith in andersen or the peer review process , ' ' dingell wrote .
andersen responded that it has faith in the accounting
profession ' s self - regulatory process , which the pob oversees .
a spokeswoman at deloitte & touche didn ' t return a telephone
call seeking comment .
the oversight board was thinking of looking into peer review
issues before receiving dingell ' s letter , bowsher said . ` ` but this
letter certainly focuses the issue , ' ' he said .
conflict of interest ?
dingell ' s letter said the outside counsel to a special
committee of enron ' s board has retained deloitte & touche - -
andersen ' s peer reviewer - - to help it examine the company ' s
accounting problems .
` ` do ( deloitte & touche ' s ) dual roles create a conflict of
interest ? ' ' dingell ' s letter asked . ` ` if ( deloitte & touche ) finds
numerous problems on enron , will ( deloitte & touche ) try to
` whitewash ' or reconcile them in order to be able to issue a clean
peer review report ? ' '
dingell also questioned whether the money andersen pays
deloitte & touche for its peer review will sway the outcome .
` ` how will this influence , if at all , ( deloitte & touche ' s )
` independent ' judgment of andersen ' s work on enron ? ' ' dingell
asked .
bowsher there is ` ` nothing we can do to change the fact that
deloitte & touche has done the previous reviews of andersen . now ,
the question is should they ( the outside counsel ) use the same
firm , or would it be better for them to use another firm ? and
that ' s pretty much their decision . ' '
expanded power
dingell ' s request could prove a test of the oversight board ' s
expanded power and oversight . the group ' s charter was revised
earlier this year to make the board the accounting industry ' s
premier watchdog group , following criticisms by former sec
chairman arthur levitt and former sec chief accountant lynn
turner . they criticized an ` ` alphabet soup ' ' of accounting self -
regulators and voiced frustration with the industry ' s oversight of
itself .
the new charter put the oversight board in charge of
supervising the setting of auditing and audit - independence
standards and monitoring how firms audit public companies . it also
gave the board , which is funded by the industry , the power to set
its own budget with no strings attached .
` ` now , for the first time , we will see if the pob is able to
act in the public interest and undertake the mandate presented to
it by congressman dingell and by its new charter , ' ' turner said .
` ` they didn ' t have the power in the past . ' '
the public oversight board was set up in 1977 to represent
the public interest in overseeing the accounting industry ' s self -
governance structure . before its charter was revised , the board
was just one facet of the enforcement of auditing industry
standards regarding publicly traded companies . now , it oversees
the activities of these other groups as well .
energy cos limit business with enron after 10 q - traders
by mark golden
of dow jones newswires
11 / 20 / 2001
dow jones en