Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 21 / 01
enron stock , bonds receive more hits following warning
the wall street journal , 11 / 21 / 01
enron , vdeg may bid to export bulgarian electricity , paper says
bloomberg , 11 / 21 / 01
raymond james analyst cartwright comments on enron disclosure
bloomberg , 11 / 21 / 01
enron stock punishment deepens
debt woes cast pall over merger
houston chronicle , 11 / 21 / 01
watchdog group nixes request to probe enron audit woes
dow jones news service , 11 / 21 / 01
japan : enron mulls withdrawal from japan - jiji .
reuters english news service , 11 / 21 / 01
enron ' s stock falls nearly 23 percent amid concern about financial outlook
associated press newswires , 11 / 21 / 01
bleak outlook , trouble with customers drops enron stock nearly 23 percent
associated press newswires , 11 / 21 / 01
enron ' s trouble deepens
wall street journal , 11 / 21 / 01
front page - companies & markets - new fears over dynegy bid hit enron .
financial times , 11 / 21 / 01
enron share price falls 23 percent after news of quarterly earnings changes
krtbn knight - ridder tribune business news : houston chronicle - texas , 11 / 21 / 01
companies & finance the americas - enron suffers amid dynegy rescue concern .
financial times , 11 / 21 / 01
enron ' s growing financial crisis raises doubts about merger deal
the new york times , 11 / 21 / 01
enron ' s shares fall on debt concerns
los angeles times , 11 / 21 / 01
new doubts on enron ' s india investment
the new york times , 11 / 21 / 01
inside track
insider selling remained mild last month
the wall street journal , 11 / 21 / 01
enron sued for alleged pension fund endangerment
dow jones news service , 11 / 20 / 01
hagens berman announces class action lawsuit against enron
business wire , 11 / 20 / 01
usa : update 3 - debt fears spear enron , stock at decade low .
reuters english news service , 11 / 20 / 01
usa : corrected - accounts board to eye peer reviews amid enron furor .
reuters english news service , 11 / 20 / 01
enron ` s ongoing woes
cnnfn : markets impact , 11 / 20 / 01
enron ' s credit remains on negative watch , s & p says ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
u . s . equity movers final : aradigm , creo , enron , espeed , ramtron
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
enron faces limits on business with energy traders ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
enron falls amid concern debt threatens dynegy bid ( update 7 )
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
enron investor files suit to block company ' s sale to dynegy
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
enron employee sues over alleged endangerment of 401 ( k ) funds
bloomberg , 11 / 20 / 01
cnnfn - street - sweep - 14
enron analysis , cnnfn
11 / 20 / 01
enron stock , bonds receive more hits following warning
by john r . emshwiller
staff reporter of the wall street journal
11 / 21 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 4
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . ' s stock and bond prices took another beating after the energy company ' s release late monday of its much - anticipated third - quarter financial filing with the securities and exchange commission , which revealed potentially major new cash - flow and earnings headaches .
as of 4 p . m . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , enron shares were at $ 6 . 991 , down $ 2 . 07 , or 23 % . enron once again topped the big board ' s most - active list with 89 . 9 million shares traded , more than twice the volume of the next most active stock .
enron bond prices fell into the range of between 70 cents and 80 cents on the dollar , according to market observers . following the announcement earlier this month of dynegy inc . ' s plan to purchase enron for around $ 10 billion in stock , bond prices had firmed to above 80 cents on the dollar .
yesterday , a dynegy spokesman wouldn ' t comment on the status of the pending acquisition , other than to say his company was reviewing enron ' s third - quarter financial report , filed with the sec , as part of continuing " due diligence . " under the proposed acquisition , dynegy would exchange 0 . 2685 of its shares for each enron share . based on dynegy ' s 4 p . m . price yesterday on the big board of $ 41 . 70 a share , off $ 1 . 90 , the deal values enron shares at about $ 11 . 20 - - well above the current market price .
monday ' s third - quarter financial report from enron , which supplemented and revised enron ' s earnings announcement last month , reinforced fears that the energy - trading company is in a " precarious financial position and will be for awhile , " said andre meade , head of u . s . utility research at commerzbank securities .
as reported in the wall street journal , enron ' s sec filing monday said that because of the company ' s deteriorated credit standing , it might have to repay a $ 690 million note by this coming monday . the filing also said enron might be forced to take a $ 700 million pretax charge to earnings in the current quarter , ending dec . 31 , due to a drop in value of some of its assets .
houston - based enron has been in deepening financial distress for the past month , since announcing big asset and shareholder - equity reductions in the third quarter . much of the turmoil has been caused by the company ' s dealings with partnerships headed by former enron officers , including its former chief financial officer . those dealings are the subject of a formal sec investigation .
enron ' s financial woes have also led to a " reduced level of transaction activity " with the company by trading partners , the sec filing said . how well , or poorly , enron ' s energy - trading volume holds up is " the million - dollar question , " said simmons & co . analyst jeff dietert . enron ' s trading operation has been the company ' s main profit engine and the major attraction for dynegy in the acquisition deal .
yesterday , other major energy - trading companies said they were still doing business with enron but were closely monitoring the firm ' s condition . standard & poor ' s ratings group also reaffirmed enron ' s credit ratings even though it said monday ' s sec filings " raise liquidity issues " for the company .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron , vdeg may bid to export bulgarian electricity , paper says
2001 - 11 - 21 03 : 40 ( new york )
sofia , nov . 21 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . , the largest energy
trader , seeks to export electricity from bulgaria to italy ,
dnevnik daily reported , citing unidentified sources from the state
energy agency .
enron , as well as two german companies , including vdeg , will
be invited to bid at a tender for the national electricity company
to select energy trading partners , the paper said . enron is being
bought by rival dynegy inc . for about $ 20 billion .
currently nec ead is the sole exporter of electricity from
bulgaria , which provides energy to most of its neighbors ,
including serbia , macedonia , montenegro , greece , kosovo , albania ,
and turkey . last year the country exported electricity worth $ 117
million to turkey alone .
opening the energy market to competition is part of the
requirements for bulgaria to join the european union . the
international monetary fund , which is expected to provide $ 150
million to bulgaria over the next year , also insisted on
reorganization of the energy industry .
raymond james analyst cartwright comments on enron disclosure
2001 - 11 - 21 07 : 45 ( new york )
new york , nov . 21 ( bloomberg ) - - jon kyle cartwright , a
senior vice president and senior energy analyst at raymond james &
associates inc . in st . petersburg , florida comments on the enron
corp . ' s disclosure that it may have to repay a $ 690 million note
next week following the downgrade of its credit ratings to the
lowest investment - grade level .
the houston - based energy trader made the disclosure in a
filing with the securities and exchange commission known as a
` ` 10 q ' ' on monday .
` ` i have to believe that dynegy knew about this , maybe not
when the deal was signed , but certainly before the 10 q was
published . there was wiggle room in the deal for both write downs ,
which effectively includes both the note and the potential write
down for whitewing . ' '
` ` there still appears to be enough liquidity to handle the
write offs and the $ 690 million limited partnership note . ' '
` ` over the short - run , the rest of this week , it is going to
be difficult for anyone to trade with enron , because they should
be generally concerned that neither enron nor dynegy has made
public comments on this 10 q . ' '
` ` if it is only for a few days , we ' re ok . as long as dynegy
doesn ' t pull out of this deal , we should be ok , and enron should
maintain its investment grade rating , and all the enron corp .
bonds should mature without incident . ' '
` ` hopefully the company will comment shortly . if there has
ever been a company that couldn ' t afford to disclose a time bomb
in a 10 q , it is enron . this should have been disclosed prior to
this . it added to the crisis of confidence . ' '
` ` we believe the company will be able to satisfy the $ 690
million note . it appears they should be able to do it from
existing liquidity . they could renegotiate the note and / or the
other bank facilities that would be jeopardized if they default on
the note . ' '
` ` even our buy recommendation on the enron notes is based on
our belief that dynegy ' s management is credible because enron ' s
lost all credibility with this disclosure . ' '
on the possibility that enron may be downgraded to junk ratings :
` ` nothing ' s too big to fail , and pg & e proved that . the core
business at enron is the trading operation , and it is difficult
for people to trade with any firm , particularly an energy trader ,
if there is any concern they won ' t be able to deliver on their
side of the trade . ' '
enron stock punishment deepens
debt woes cast pall over merger
by tom fowler
copyright 2001 houston chronicle
november 21 , 2001
the continuing stream of surprises from the depths of enron corp . ' s balance sheet is putting a strain on dynegy ' s plans to buy its beleaguered competitor , but analysts say the deal remains on track .
enron ' s share price dropped 23 percent tuesday to $ 6 . 99 after news the company had to restate its third - quarter earnings and would need to pay off or renegotiate a $ 690 million iou by monday .
the changes came just five days after enron executives told analysts in a conference call they believed most of the charges related to special financing partnerships had been disclosed .
" the fact that enron is still capable of pulling new rabbits out of their hat would make me think dynegy would question their future earnings even more , " said prudential securities analyst carol coale , referring to the big income benefit dynegy hopes to reap from the deal .
" but at this point dynegy says they ' re still going forward , so i still have a positive outlook on it closing . "
the $ 690 million note payable , which is related to a natural gas partnership in brazil , had been reported earlier . but the fact that it would come due almost immediately if the company ' s credit rating was downgraded to bbb - , which happened nov . 12 , was news to analysts and to dynegy .
enron spokesman mark palmer said the company has the cash on hand to pay the obligation but would like to have it restructured and extended . negotiations are under way to do so , he said .
the surprise surrounding the early deadline for the note was likely because of high turnover in enron ' s accounting department , said merrill lynch analyst donato eassey in a report tuesday , but he believes the debt was taken into account by dynegy in merger negotiations .
" the latest twists , while negative , are not however likely to turn into a tornado and are not deal - breakers in our opinion , " eassey said . " at the level enron is being purchased , dynegy had clearly baked - in these types of uncertainties into its purchase price . "
enron is also feeling pressure because some of its energy trading partners are either cutting back on the amount of business they do with the company or keeping close watch of enron ' s credit rating . officials with mirant corp . and aquila said they have cut back on trading while houston - based reliant resources is watching the situation carefully .
" we ' re being cautious , monitoring our position with them very closely , " said joe bob perkins , president of reliant resources ' wholesale business . " but i don ' t think that today feels significantly different than it felt a week ago . "
perkins said reliant officials read enron ' s 10 - q filing .
" the questions we had about that we addressed with enron , " perkins said .
he said the fuss over the 10 - q seemed to be coming more from the press than the energy trading industry and said any slowdown in overall trading in the market may have more to do with the season than problems at enron .
" it looks more like the preholiday norm than anything fundamentally different because of enron , " perkins said .
that doesn ' t mean analysts are resting easy . commerzbank securities analyst andre meade said in a report that although the 10 - q sheds more light on enron finances , the information continues to be released piecemeal , making it likely more surprises are in store .
" overall we believe the filing clearly shows that enron remains in a precarious financial position , and its status as a going concern is much in doubt , " meade said .
enron has about $ 1 . 5 billion in cash and about $ 3 billion in recently negotiated revolving credit lines , as well as $ 800 million in asset sales pending and another $ 500 million to $ 1 billion in equity investment expected soon . that could disappear in a hurry , however , if the company ' s credit rating drops one notch to below - investment grade . that would trigger several partnership contracts that would force the company to repay or refinance up to $ 4 billion in debt .
credit rating agency standard & poor ' s said tuesday it was maintaining enron ' s rating , but prudential ' s coale is concerned .
" the real crisis is in six months , when almost $ 4 billion in debt is expected to mature , " she said . " it ' s not fatalistic , but it is dire . "
watchdog group nixes request to probe enron audit woes
by judith burns
of dow jones newswires
11 / 21 / 2001
dow jones news service
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones judith . burns @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
japan : enron mulls withdrawal from japan - jiji .
11 / 21 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
tokyo , nov 21 ( reuters ) - u . s . energy giant enron corp , which has seen its share price fall to a decade low , is considering withdrawing from the japanese market , jiji news agency said on wednesday .
jiji , citing informed sources , said the enron group hopes to sell its business in japan to investment banks or trading firms , which are planning to enter the energy business .
officials at enron corp in japan could not immediately be reached for comment .
enron japan formally opened its tokyo office in october 2000 .
in its 2000 annual report , it said it was developing wholesale and joint venture possibilities in japan , and had introduced a product for large electricity users in the form of three - to five - year contracts that aimed to reduce electricity bills by up to 10 percent in the first year .
it said in the report that its first contracts were signed in early 2001 .
shares of enron closed down 22 . 8 percent at $ 6 . 99 on the new york stock exchange on tuesday , after touching $ 6 . 55 during the day - a low not seen since may 1991 .
enron , the largest energy trader in the united states , had warned on monday that it could be forced to pay a $ 690 million debt by next week and reduced its already - abysmal third - quarter earnings .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron ' s stock falls nearly 23 percent amid concern about financial outlook
by juan a . lozano
associated press writer
11 / 21 / 2001
associated press newswires
copyright 2001 . the associated press . all rights reserved .
houston ( ap ) - enron corp . ' s stock plummeted to its lowest level in almost a decade amid concerns about the energy company ' s growing financial problems - heightening worries that its planned acquisition by dynegy inc . might fall through .
enron ' s shares tumbled $ 2 . 07 , or 23 percent , to $ 6 . 99 on the new york stock exchange on tuesday - its lowest close since early 1992 . earlier this month , energy marketer dynegy announced that it would buy enron - its larger rival - in a stock deal that was valued at $ 8 billion .
andre meade , head of the u . s . utility research for commerzbank securities , said he doesn ' t know if dynegy is willing to take on enron ' s headaches if the value of its core business - energy trading - is reduced or collapses .
" the bid by dynegy gave ( enron ) breathing space but it did not solve all their problems , " meade said .
but duane grubert , an analyst with sanford c . bernstein and co . , said , " dynegy will do what it needs to make sure the deal will prevail . "
officials with enron and dynegy , both houston - based , said reports of trading problems were incorrect and the merger was not in trouble .
" we continue to do business with enron . we are one of their largest customers and they are one of our largest customers , " dynegy spokesman john sousa said .
late monday , enron filed restated third - quarter earnings that increased its loss for the period by 3 cents a share to 87 cents . the company also disclosed it is trying to restructure a $ 690 million obligation that could come due nov . 27 .
enron spokeswoman karen denne said the company has received verbal indications it will be given more time to pay off the debt .
adding to enron ' s financial woes are reports that for several weeks companies have limited buying and selling future deliveries of power and natural gas for fear they won ' t be paid . that could leave enron unable to do business .
" it ' s obvious that they remain in a pretty precarious position and things have evolved in a declining and worsening path , " said charlie sanchez , energy markets manager for gelber & associates , a houston - based energy trading firm .
denne said reports that enron was having trouble buying from energy traders were " erroneous . "
" we ' ve seen no recognizable change in the number of customers , " she said . " our transaction volume is within the normal range . "
enron agreed to be bought by dynegy after its stock price plunged about 80 percent in the weeks after disclosing a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity related to partnerships run by company officers . the arrangements allowed enron to keep about half a billion dollars in debt off its books .
those partnerships are now under investigation by the sec .
earlier this month , enron said it overstated earnings between 1997 and the first half of 2001 by $ 586 million and revised its debt upward by $ 628 million .
- - -
on the net :
enron : http : / / www . enron . com
dynegy : http : / / www . dynegy . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
bleak outlook , trouble with customers drops enron stock nearly 23 percent
by juan a . lozano
associated press writer
11 / 21 / 2001
associated press newswires
copyright 2001 . the associated press . all rights reserved .
houston ( ap ) - concerns about enron corp . ' s ability to weather its spiraling financial problems sent the company ' s stock down nearly 23 percent to its lowest level in nearly 10 years .
the shares on tuesday tumbled dlrs 2 . 07 to dlrs 6 . 99 on the new york stock exchange - the lowest since the shares closed at dlrs 7 . 72 in feb . 6 , 1992 - a day after the company disclosed that it might have to pay a dlrs 690 million debt by next week and amid reports that energy companies weren ' t selling it power and natural gas for fear they won ' t be paid .
analysts were mixed on whether enron can survive its latest financial storm and if the dlrs 10 . 5 billion merger between enron and its rival dynegy inc . - expected to conclude by next summer - will fall apart .
andre meade , head of the u . s . utility research for commerzbank securities , said he doesn ' t know if dynegy is willing to take on enron ' s headaches if the value of its core business - energy trading - is reduced or collapses .
" the bid by dynegy gave ( enron ) breathing space but it did not solve all their problems , " meade said .
but duane grubert , an analyst with sanford c . bernstein and co . , said , " dynegy will do what it needs to make sure the deal will prevail , which still looks attractive to them . "
officials with enron and dynegy , both houston - based , said reports of problems with energy trading were incorrect and the merger was not in trouble .
john sousa , dynegy spokesman , said dynegy will stick with its dlrs 8 . 7 billion buyout plan .
" we continue to do business with enron . we are one of their largest customers and they are one of our largest customers , " sousa said .
late monday , enron filed restated third - quarter earnings with the securities and exchange commission that increased its loss for the period by 3 cents a share to 87 cents .
the company also disclosed it is trying to restructure a dlrs 690 million obligation that could come due nov . 27 .
adding to enron ' s financial woes are reports by dow jones news service that for several weeks , companies have limited buying and selling future deliveries of power and natural gas for fear they won ' t be paid . that could leave enron unable to do business .
" it ' s obvious that they remain in a pretty precarious position and things have evolved in a declining and worsening path , " said charlie sanchez , energy markets manager for gelber & associates , a houston - based energy trading firm . " i think that there is little in terms of what could renew confidence in any trading . "
enron spokesman karen denne said reports that enron was having trouble buying from energy traders were " erroneous . "
" we ' ve seen no recognizable change in the number of customers , " she said . " our transaction volume is within the normal range . "
denne said the company has received verbal indications it will be given more time to pay off the dlrs 690 million debt that could be due next week .
standard & poor ' s corp . on tuesday said it continued to monitor enron ' s credit rating for possible downgrade , which would put enron ' s debt in " junk " status territory , making it harder and more expensive to borrow money .
- - -
on the net :
http : / / www . enron . com
http : / / www . dynegy . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
report on business : the wall street journal
enron ' s trouble deepens
john r . emshwiller
wall street journal
11 / 21 / 2001
the globe and mail
metro
bl 2
" all material copyright ( c ) bell globemedia publishing inc . and its licensors . all rights reserved . "
enron corp . ' s stock and bond prices took another beating following the huge energy company ' s release late monday of its much - anticipated third - quarter financial filing with the u . s . securities and exchange commission , which revealed potentially major new cash flow and earnings headaches .
in 4 p . m . composite trading on the new york stock exchange yesterday , enron shares were at $ 6 . 99 ( u . s . ) a share , down $ 2 . 07 or 23 per cent . enron once again topped the big board ' s most - active list with 89 . 9 million shares traded , more than twice the volume of the next most active stock .
enron bond prices fell into the range of between 70 and 80 cents on the dollar , according to market observers . following the announcement earlier this month of dynegy inc . ' s plan to purchase enron for around $ 10 - billion in stock , bond prices had firmed to above 80 cents on the dollar .
yesterday , a dynegy spokesman wouldn ' t comment on the status of the pending acquisition , other than to say his company was reviewing enron ' s third - quarter financial report , filed with the sec , as part of continuing " due diligence . " under the proposed acquisition , dynegy would exchange 0 . 2685 of its shares for each enron share . based on dynegy ' s 4 p . m . price yesterday of $ 41 . 70 a share , off $ 1 . 90 , the deal values enron shares at about $ 11 . 20 - - well above the current market price .
monday ' s third - quarter financial report from enron , which supplemented and revised enron ' s earnings announcement last month , reinforced fears that the energy - trading company is " in precarious financial position and will be for awhile , " said andre meade , head of u . s . utility research at commerzbank securities .
enron ' s sec filing said that because of the company ' s deteriorated credit standing it might have to come up with $ 690 - million later his month to honour a collateral call on a note outstanding . the filing also said enron might be forced to take a $ 700 - million pretax charge to earnings in the current quarter , ending dec . 31 , due to a drop in value of some of its assets .
houston - based enron has been in deepening financial distress for the past month , since announcing big asset and shareholder equity reductions in the third quarter . much of the turmoil has been caused by the company ' s dealings with partnerships headed by former enron officers , including its former chief financial officer . those dealings part of a formal sec investigation .
how well , or poorly , enron ' s energy trading volume holds up is " the million - dollar question , " said simmons & co . analyst jeff dietert .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
front page - companies & markets - new fears over dynegy bid hit enron .
by robert clow , andrew hill and sheila mcnulty .
11 / 21 / 2001
financial times
( c ) 2001 financial times limited . all rights reserved
fears that dynegy may not be able to complete its rescue bid for enron in time to save the rival energy group hit enron ' s shares and bonds yesterday , as investors limited their exposure ahead of tomorrow ' s thanksgiving holiday .
the stock fell 23 per cent , or $ 2 . 07 , to close at $ 6 . 99 in new york after enron disclosed in a regulatory filing in which the group said it would have to repay $ 9 . 15 bn of debt by the end of next year .
" the filing shows , in our view , enron remains in a pretty precarious position . . . i am not convinced enron can raise enough money to fill those obligations prior to the close with dynegy , " said andre meade , an analyst with commerzbank securities .
growing doubts about the chances of the $ 9 . 6 bn deal going through have widened the spread between the enron share price and the value of dynegy ' s all - stock bid .
by the close in new york yesterday enron ' s shares were trading at a discount of 38 per cent to the offer .
dynegy would say only that the filing was an " important step " in the due diligence process it is carrying out .
enron warned in monday ' s filing that last week ' s credit rating downgrade by standard & poor ' s would trigger the repayment on november 27 of a $ 690 m note , unless it posted collateral . enron is talking to its lenders to avoid , or delay , repayment .
s & p said yesterday it believed enron ' s net available cash of $ 1 . 5 bn , plus an expected $ 500 m of additional private equity and $ 800 m of asset sale proceeds , would be enough to carry it through to completion of the dynegy takeover . but the agency kept the company on a negative " creditwatch " - meaning its rating could still be cut to junk . merrill lynch estimated that enron had burnt through $ 5 bn of cash in just 50 days .
officials from dynegy and enron have estimated that it could take six to nine months for the takeover to be approved .
if enron fails , it would have grave repercussions for the energy and financial markets .
" enron is essentially insolvent without dynegy , so it needs the deal to go through , " said curt launer , an analyst with credit suisse first boston , who believes there is still a 90 per cent chance of the dynegy deal succeeding .
the company ' s bonds traded as low as 50 cents on the dollar yesterday although a distressed investor , wilbur ross - who runs wl ross & co - said that his firm was buying the bonds because the market had overreacted . additional reporting by robert clow avenue of the americas , page 13 www . ft . com / enron .
( c ) copyright financial times ltd . all rights reserved .
http : / / www . ft . com .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones source : world reporter ( tm )
the continuing stream of surprises from the depths of enron corp . ' s balance sheet is putting a strain on dynegy ' s plans to buy its beleaguered competitor , but analysts say the deal remains on track .
enron ' s share price dropped 23 percent tuesday to $ 6 . 99 after news the company had to restate its third - quarter earnings and would need to pay off or renegotiate a $ 690 million iou by monday .
the changes came just five days after enron executives told analysts in a conference call they believed most of the charges related to special financing partnerships had been disclosed .
" the fact that enron is still capable of pulling new rabbits out of their hat would make me think dynegy would question their future earnings even more , " said prudential securities analyst carol coale , referring to the big income benefit dynegy hopes to reap from the deal .
" but at this point dynegy says they ' re still going forward , so i still have a positive outlook on it closing . "
the $ 690 million note payable , which is related to a natural gas partnership in brazil , had been reported earlier . but the fact that it would come due almost immediately if the company ' s credit rating was downgraded to bbb - , which happened nov . 12 , was news to analysts and to dynegy .
enron spokesman mark palmer said the company has the cash on hand to pay the obligation but would like to have it restructured and extended . negotiations are under way to do so , he said .
the surprise surrounding the early deadline for the note was likely because of high turnover in enron ' s accounting department , said merrill lynch analyst donato eassey in a report tuesday , but he believes the debt was taken into account by dynegy in merger negotiations .
" the latest twists , while negative , are not however likely to turn into a tornado and are not deal - breakers in our opinion , " eassey said . " at the level enron is being purchased , dynegy had clearly baked - in these types of uncertainties into its purchase price . "
enron is also feeling pressure because some of its energy trading partners are either cutting back on the amount of business they do with the company or keeping close watch of enron ' s credit rating . officials with mirant corp . and aquila said they have cut back on trading while houston - based reliant resources is watching the situation carefully .
" we ' re being cautious , monitoring our position with them very closely , " said joe bob perkins , president of reliant resources ' wholesale business . " but i don ' t think that today feels significantly different than it felt a week ago . "
perkins said reliant officials read enron ' s 10 - q filing .
" the questions we had about that we addressed with enron , " perkins said .
he said the fuss over the 10 - q seemed to be coming more from the press than the energy trading industry and said any slowdown in overall trading in the market may have more to do with the season than problems at enron .
" it looks more like the preholiday norm than anything fundamentally different because of enron , " perkins said .
that doesn ' t mean analysts are resting easy . commerzbank securities analyst andre meade said in a report that although the 10 - q sheds more light on enron finances , the information continues to be released piecemeal , making it likely more surprises are in store .
" overall we believe the filing clearly shows that enron remains in a precarious financial position , and its status as a going concern is much in doubt , " meade said .
enron has about $ 1 . 5 billion in c