Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 23 / 01
premiums stay high on enron ' s near options , and ` doubling up ' date looms for tax losses
the wall street journal , 11 / 23 / 01
dynegy deal to buy enron hits crossroads
the wall street journal , 11 / 23 / 01
enron faces suits by 401 ( k ) plan participants
the wall street journal , 11 / 23 / 01
from sunbeam to enron , andersen ' s reputation suffers
the new york times , 11 / 23 / 01
chase and j . p . morgan ' s paper anniversary
a year after the merger , rosy plans meet reality
the new york times , 11 / 23 / 01
companies & finance the americas - enron ' awaiting ' capital injections , say officials .
financial times , 11 / 23 / 01
usa : update 2 - enron bleeds again as dynegy deal doubts grow .
reuters english news service , 11 / 23 / 01
usa : enron avoids junk status , but observers wonder how .
reuters english news service , 11 / 23 / 01
usa : us corp bonds - enron slips again in quiet market .
reuters english news service , 11 / 23 / 01
usa : enron shares seesaw on concerns over dynegy deal .
reuters english news service , 11 / 23 / 01
tales of the tape : energy traders ' perfect storm stalls
dow jones news service , 11 / 23 / 01
u . s . energy exhange may scrap online platform plans
dow jones energy service , 11 / 23 / 01
enron woes may endanger plans for mozambique steel proj
dow jones international news , 11 / 23 / 01
stockwatch enron down , dynegy up on lingering merger uncertainty
afx news , 11 / 23 / 01
usa : houston economy seen weathering major layoffs .
reuters english news service , 11 / 23 / 01
dabhol pwr confirms arbitrator panel mtg in singapore sat
dow jones international news , 11 / 23 / 01
enron sec filing contained information dynegy was unaware of - report
afx news , 11 / 23 / 01
dynegy ' s decision to buy enron hits crossroads amid rising financial woes
dow jones business news , 11 / 23 / 01
employees ' lawuit says enron hurt retirement funds courts : the suit claims the energy firm urged workers to invest in company stock just before it plunged .
los angeles times , 11 / 23 / 01
portland utility ' s fate tied to enron ' s future
the seattle times , 11 / 23 / 01
enron shares and bonds fall on concern about takeover ( update 5 )
bloomberg , 11 / 23 / 01
kkr , blackstone are among likely enron investors , analyst says
bloomberg , 11 / 23 / 01
microsoft msn fast web access expansion slowed by enron suit
bloomberg , 11 / 23 / 01
options report
premiums stay high on enron ' s near options , and ` doubling up ' date looms for tax losses
by kopin tan
dow jones newswires
11 / 23 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl 1
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - - volatility and premiums on enron ' s near - month options remain extremely high . it is a sign that investors are willing to pay a rich price for option protection and expect the stock to be unsettled as the houston company sorts through its credit and debt problems and seeks to calm frazzled investors .
enron near - month defensive puts traded heavily in an otherwise quiet session wednesday , as investors bought them to hedge . the december 5 puts traded more than 10 , 000 contracts and jumped 45 cents to $ 1 . 10 at the chicago board options exchange . the stock closed down $ 1 . 98 , or 28 % , to $ 5 . 01 , as of 4 p . m . in new york stock exchange composite trading .
enron ' s calls traded actively as some investors sold them to generate income . traders noted some call buying - - especially after enron procured a three - week extension on a $ 690 million note - - as some hopeful investors bet on enron pulling through its troubles and proceeding with its merger with dynegy inc . enron ' s december 5 calls traded more than 14 , 500 contracts , compared with open interest of 710 , as they fell $ 1 . 45 to $ 1 . 15 at the cboe .
for investors who want to book a tax loss on beaten - down stocks , the " wash sale " rule can be a hurdle , because it essentially prevents taxpayers from selling stock or securities at a loss and then reacquiring " substantially identical " securities within a 30 - day period before or after that loss . this poses a problem for those who want to book a loss yet own stocks whose prices now make them attractive " buy " candidates .
in addition , the internal revenue service has taken the position that the wash - sale rule will disallow a loss if the investor sells an in - the - money put , because there is a strong likelihood that stock will be put to or acquired by the investor .
so investors typically get around the wash - sale rule by " doubling up " : buying additional stock or options , waiting at least 31 days , and then selling the original stock to book the loss . investors double up by buying calls , which locks a price to buy stock and achieves the same effect as buying additional stock .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
dynegy deal to buy enron hits crossroads
by rebecca smith and john r . emshwiller
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 23 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
even as it reiterated its intention to purchase enron corp . , dynegy inc . is coming under increasing pressure to renegotiate or walk away from the multibillion - dollar deal .
the pressure is stemming from the continuing slide in the price of enron shares and the mounting financial problems at the houston energy - trading company , the nation ' s biggest marketer of electricity and natural gas . during the past month , enron has taken a $ 1 billion write - off of assets , revised downward the earnings of the past several years and taken a $ 1 . 2 billion reduction in shareholder equity .
the problems have been due largely to dealings enron had with private partnerships , run by some of its own executives , under investigation by the securities and exchange commission . in an sec filing monday , enron disclosed hundreds of millions of potential additional write - offs as well as the possibility that its weakening financial condition could force it to repay more than $ 2 billion in loans by the end of the year .
as of 4 p . m . wednesday in new york stock exchange composite trading , enron shares fell $ 1 . 98 , or 28 % , to $ 5 . 01 each after having dropped 23 % tuesday . in excess of 115 million shares traded wednesday , more than four times the volume of any other big board stock . enron ' s bonds also again traded sharply lower , market observers said .
the turmoil spilled over to dynegy ' s stock , which also was among the most actively traded on the new york stock exchange . as of 4 p . m . wednesday , dynegy shares fell $ 1 . 94 to $ 39 . 76 each .
on wednesday , dynegy issued a statement in which chairman and chief executive chuck watson said his company was working " to accelerate the regulatory approvals required to complete the merger in accordance with the previously announced agreement " though it continued to perform " due diligence " on enron .
under the merger agreement , dynegy has opportunities to renegotiate or walk away from the deal if enron ' s financial and legal problems become severe enough . however , some observers said it can be difficult to invoke these so - called material adverse change clauses . they point to a decision earlier this year by a delaware chancery court judge who forced tyson foods inc . to complete a planned purchase of ibp inc . even though tyson , a springdale , ark . , food - products company , had wanted to cancel the transaction because of a drop in ibp ' s earnings and accounting problems at an ibp unit .
dynegy officials didn ' t return calls seeking comment . to complete the deal , two - thirds of dynegy shareholders and a majority of enron shareholders would have to give their approval . no dates for those votes have been set .
one person familiar with the merger plans said the sec filing monday by enron contained information dynegy hadn ' t known about . dynegy representatives planned to work through the weekend evaluating the importance of this new information as part of the company ' s due diligence , this person said . it couldn ' t be determined what the new information was .
the merger agreement , announced nov . 9 , calls for dynegy to exchange 0 . 2685 share for each of enron ' s roughly 850 million fully diluted shares , giving the purchase a value of about $ 9 billion at dynegy ' s current stock price . however , from a price standpoint , the deal is appearing less attractive to dynegy .
on the day of the merger announcement , enron shares were trading at about $ 8 . 63 each , or about 83 % of the purchase price under the exchange ratio . as of wednesday , enron ' s market price was only about 47 % of the merger - formula price . such a sharp deterioration is unusual following a merger announcement , when the stock price of the company being acquired generally begins trading relatively close to the offering price .
sentiment among wall street analysts also is turning against the merger . initially , many analysts lauded the merger as a move that would rescue enron and provide a major boost to houston - based dynegy . dynegy and enron officials have predicted that the merger , supposed to be completed late next year , would significantly and immediately increase dynegy ' s earnings .
now analysts are challenging that assumption . ron barone , managing director at ubs warburg llc , said he believes that because of enron ' s financial problems , a combined company would actually have lower earnings next year than dynegy would have by itself . mr . barone said he thinks a " likely scenario " is that the merger formula will be renegotiated sharply down to about 0 . 15 dynegy share for each enron share .
such a ratcheting down wouldn ' t be without precedent in the deal . according to one person familiar with the merger negotiations , dynegy reduced the exchange formula at least once prior to the nov . 9 announcement because of enron ' s rapidly sinking stock price , which at the beginning of this year was above $ 80 a share .
in perhaps the most significant sign of the turning tide on wall street , goldman sachs analyst david fleischer lowered his ratings on enron and dynegy . a longtime enron fan , mr . fleischer issued a report expressing doubts that the merger would help dynegy ' s earnings and whether enron could " recover the significant business that has been lost " in its giant energy - trading operations . " the enron machine continues to sputter , " mr . fleischer wrote .
some observers say that if dynegy walked away from the deal or tried to renegotiate the terms significantly , enron might be pushed into a bankruptcy - law filing . without the dynegy acquisition and continued support from its bankers and customers , an enron bankruptcy - court filing " is highly possible , " said ralph pellecchia , a senior director at fitch , a credit - ratings agency . on wednesday , fitch maintained its credit rating on enron at just one notch above noninvestment - grade , or " junk , " status . but fitch also said it believed enron ' s trading partners had made " significant cash collateral calls " in recent days that are " well in excess of previous expectations , " contributing to " liquidity pressures . "
among the advisers enron has hired during its current crisis is the law firm of weil , gotshal & manges , which specializes in bankruptcy and corporate - workout situations . asked about a possible bankruptcy filing , an enron spokeswoman said the company expects the dynegy deal to go through and therefore doesn ' t expect to have to look at alternatives to the merger . since the merger announcement , enron chairman kenneth lay has said his company had alternatives to the dynegy deal but he has declined to identify them . enron said it made some progress improving its financial position . the company said it reached a final agreement with units of j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup inc . on the remaining $ 450 million of a previously announced $ 1 billion in secured credit lines . enron said lenders had agreed to extend repayment of an existing $ 690 million note to mid - december from next week . the spokeswoman said a restructuring of that obligation is expected to be completed next month so that repayment wouldn ' t be required this year .
- - -
thaddeus herrick and robin sidel contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron faces suits by 401 ( k ) plan participants
by theo francis and ellen schultz
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 23 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . , the embattled houston energy and trading company , has been sued by members of its employee - retirement plan , which has suffered losses because of enron ' s plummeting stock price .
two separate lawsuits , filed in federal court in houston , allege enron misled participants in its 401 ( k ) retirement plan about the risks of investing in the company ' s shares and note that the company forced the employees to remain invested in its stock even as the shares fell . amid growing disclosures of financial problems in recent weeks , the company " locked down " the retirement plan from oct . 17 to nov . 19 to make administrative changes , which prevented employees from selling enron shares as the share price collapsed .
enron , which recently agreed to be acquired by dynegy inc . , houston , because of mounting financial problems , has seen its stock price fall to $ 5 . 01 on wednesday from a peak of nearly $ 90 a share last year . the decline has been costly to participants in enron ' s retirement plan because more than 60 % of the 401 ( k ) assets were invested in enron shares at the end of last year , according to one of the suits .
the first suit was filed nov . 13 on behalf of plan participants by campbell harrison & wright llp , a houston law firm , and the second was filed tuesday by seattle - based hagens berman llp . both seek class - action certification .
enron said its corporate policy is not to comment on pending lawsuits . a spokeswoman also said the company ' s 401 ( k ) plan offers participants 18 investment choices , one of which is company stock .
the company ' s stock has fallen amid mounting losses and disclosures that it had extensive off - balance - sheet dealings with a web of partnerships headed by former company officials . the securities and exchange commission has launched a formal investigation into the company ' s accounting , and enron has said it will restate years of financial information .
the suits against enron are the latest of a series of suits filed against companies over losses in the company - stock portion of their 401 ( k ) plans . the suits allege the plan trustees breached their fiduciary duties by continuing to offer company stock , even after they became aware of serious business problems that would hurt the stock price . all the suits are pending .
as with most of these companies , enron matches employee contributions to the 401 ( k ) with shares of enron stock , and also offers enron stock as an investment choice , in addition to a variety of mutual funds . about $ 1 . 3 billion of the plan ' s $ 2 . 1 billion in assets was invested in enron shares at the end of 2000 , according to the suit filed by campbell harrison .
pamela tittle , a participant in the 401 ( k ) plan who worked in the finance department and a named plaintiff in the enron suit filed by campbell harrison & wright , had roughly 2 , 000 shares of enron stock in her retirement account and has suffered losses of about $ 140 , 000 as a result of the stock ' s decline . the suit alleges that the trustees of the enron 401 ( k ) plan violated their fiduciary duties by not informing plan participants that the company stock was in peril .
the suit filed by hagens berman , also alleges that the company failed to warn participants about risks of remaining invested in enron stock . in addition , it accuses enron of systematically misrepresenting its financial results since 1998 in connection with the partnerships under investigation by the sec .
roy e . rinard , a lineman for enron in oregon who is a named plaintiff in the suit filed by hagens berman , has seen the value of his retirement plan fall to $ 70 , 000 from $ 470 , 000 , largely as a result of the decline in enron ' s stock . " i feel like i have been betrayed , " mr . rinard said in press release issued by his lawyers . " i lost my savings , my plans for the future , everything . "
under federal pension law , companies are allowed to offer their own stock in retirement plans , and are allowed to force employees to hold onto the stock . enron doesn ' t let employees diversify out of shares they receive as matching contributions to the 401 ( k ) plan until age 50 .
however , plan trustees are supposed to operate the plan in the best interests of the participants , which includes choosing prudent investments . generally , to prove that the plan ' s administrators breached their fiduciary duties , employees must show that the trustees knew the stock was a bad investment . this presents a high hurdle , so it is not surprising that prior lawsuits over losses in company stock in 401 ( k ) plans have generally come in the wake of allegations of accounting irregularities .
lynn sarko , one of ms . tittle ' s attorneys with seattle ' s keller rohrback llp , is also co - lead counsel in a similar lawsuit against lucent technologies inc . , murray hill , n . j . another firm representing ms . tittle is dalton gotto samson & kilgard plc , which is lead counsel in a similar suit against ikon office solutions inc . , malvern , pa . the two law firms are representing ms . tittle with campbell harrison & wright .
the suits against lucent and ikon , like the suit against enron , allege that then - current plan trustees kept offering company stock in the plan despite knowing of serious business problems that would hurt the stock price . representatives for ikon and lucent say their companies didn ' t require employees to invest in the company stock , and educated employees about the need for diversification .
the suit in which mr . rinard is plaintiff notes that on oct . 17 , a day after enron announced the company was taking a nonrecurring charge totaling $ 1 . 01 billion in the third quarter , enron " locked down " the 401 ( k ) plan ' s assets , preventing participants from selling enron shares . ( a " lock - down " occurs when a retirement plan is transferred from one administrator to another , and generally lasts several weeks , during which time participants can ' t make changes in their investment choices ) .
the lock - down was lifted on nov . 19 . in the interim , on nov . 8 , enron announced it would be forced to restate downward its reported financial results from 1997 through 2000 . by the time the lock - down was lifted , as a result of all the negative news the shares had fallen to below $ 9 a share from $ 32 . 20 on oct . 17 , when the lockup started , hagens berman attorney karl barth said .
" they were locked into it right when enron knew it was going to be announcing some really bad news , " mr . barth said . " mr . rinard ' s looking at having no retirement savings now . it ' s a horrible thing to have to start over in your 50 s . "
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
from sunbeam to enron , andersen ' s reputation suffers
by floyd norris
11 / 23 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
this has been the worst year ever for arthur andersen , the accounting firm that once deserved the title of conscience of the industry . the securities and exchange commission filed civil fraud complaints against the andersen partner who audited sunbeam and against the firm itself in the waste management case .
now enron has repudiated the financial statements that were certified by arthur andersen , in the process shaving more than half a billion dollars from the company ' s reported profits in recent years .
all of which raises the question : has arthur andersen become the black sheep of the accounting industry ?
it is not an easy question to answer , and not everyone is willing to rush to judgment . ' ' if you want to attack andersen for enron , you need to know more than we know , ' ' arthur levitt , the former chairman of the securities and exchange commission , said this week .
but if there is a thread connecting what is known about the three cases , it is materiality . in all three cases , andersen auditors spotted bad accounting but were persuaded it was immaterial and therefore allowed it to go ahead .
materiality is one of those flexible concepts that can get accountants into trouble . the idea is that it doesn ' t much matter if a few little things were gotten wrong . but they can add up .
at enron , however , they did not add up to that much - - a total of $ 93 million over four years . the biggest restatement of enron profits concerns a related party that enron now says should have been consolidated . it is not clear if andersen had the facts needed to make that decision at the time .
to those who treasure the role of auditors , the humiliation of andersen is painful . back in the 1950 ' s , it was leonard spacek , andersen ' s managing partner , who warned that ' ' the profession ' s existence is in peril ' ' because it was not showing enough independence . his public prodding was crucial in making the industry do a better job . two decades ago , when the issue on the table was pension accounting , andersen was the only major accounting firm to break with clients and push for good rules .
now andersen ' s backbone is open to question . it was evidence that senior people at andersen repeatedly gave in to pressure from waste management that led the s . e . c . to bring that suit , which the firm chose to settle without admitting it had done anything wrong . the partner that the s . e . c . says looked the other way at sunbeam is fighting the accusations , and andersen says he acted properly .
lynn turner , who was chief accountant of the s . e . c . at the time and is now director of the center for quality financial reporting at colorado state university , says what is happening to andersen now is reminiscent of what happened to coopers & lybrand when he was a partner there and the firm had a series of highly publicized blown audits .
' ' we got bludgeoned to death in the press , ' ' he said . ' ' people did not even want to see us at their doorsteps . it was brutal , but we deserved it . we had gotten into this mentality in the firm of making business judgment calls . ' ' by that he meant that the firm paid too much attention to not offending clients and not enough to good accounting .
for andersen to avoid that fate , its relatively new chief executive , joseph berardino , who declined to be interviewed for this column , will need to set a tone inside the firm making clear that he expects auditors to show the backbone that mr . spacek epitomized . and then he will have to convince the public of that .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
chase and j . p . morgan ' s paper anniversary
a year after the merger , rosy plans meet reality
by riva d . atlas
11 / 23 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
when william b . harrison jr . speaks of last year ' s $ 31 billion merger of j . p . morgan and the chase manhattan corporation , he speaks proudly of a deal that he considers to be a capstone to his 34 - year career of helping build a giant of the banking business .
' ' this is the first merger i ' ve been part of , ' ' said mr . harrison , the chief executive of the combined bank , ' ' where i feel our core business is complete . ' '
the chase - j . p . morgan combination helped advance the bank into the investment banking elite , just as mr . harrison intended . but with wall street and the economy in far different places today than they were when the deal was put together , the many mergers , stock sales and other money - making opportunities that were supposed to justify the high - priced acquisition have largely dried up for now .
consequently , deal makers and analysts who follow the bank are already speculating that mr . harrison , 58 , may ultimately be compelled to do yet another large deal , this time to diversify his business away from its heavy emphasis on wall street .
j . p . morgan chase has won some prominent assignments , like handling the revampings of troubled giants like lucent and , more recently , enron , the beleaguered energy trading company .
but while j . p . morgan chase is proud of serving alongside citigroup as both lead lender and adviser to enron on its acquisition by dynegy , the dual role it has worked to achieve sometimes proves complicated for the bank . with enron ' s shares in free fall as more information comes out about its hidden debts , j . p . morgan chase has been scrambling to maintain the support of other banks while simultaneously keeping the merger with dynegy on track .
thanks largely to the slump on wall street , j . p . morgan chase ' s profits fell by two - thirds in the third quarter , to $ 449 million from $ 1 . 4 billion in the period a year ago . its stock has dropped 15 percent this year , more than other banks ' shares . the bank ' s stock is ahead of investment banks like goldman sachs , with which j . p . morgan chase increasingly competes .
' ' the jury is still out in many respects on this merger , ' ' said judah kraushaar , an analyst at merrill lynch . nevertheless , he likes j . p . morgan chase ' s stock , he said , because ' ' expectations are very low . ' '
all j . p . morgan chase ' s competitors are suffering from the slowdown on wall street . but some , like citigroup , are better diversified and have greater involvement in old - fashioned consumer banking , which is proving to be a strong moneymaker this year .
nearly a third of j . p . morgan chase ' s revenues are consumer - oriented . by contrast , its chief new york rival , citigroup , gets half its revenues from consumer businesses .
' ' the timing of the merger was bad , ' ' said steven wharton , a banking analyst at loomis , sayles donald h . layton , one of two leaders of investment banking ; and james b . lee jr . , the bank ' s senior deal maker . the team also includes dina dublon , the bank ' s chief financial officer .
two other senior executives have also lived through big deals . geoffrey t . boisi , the other investment banking leader , was the one - time investment banking chief at goldman , sachs . david a . coulter , in charge of chase ' s retail bank , had been chief executive of bank of america before it was bought by nationsbank .
' ' there aren ' t many teams that have gone through as many mergers as bill harrison and his team , ' ' said mark g . solow , managing principal at garmark advisors , an investment firm , and a former senior executive at chemical .
still , ms . dublon acknowledged that the tough economy was making the j . p . morgan takeover more difficult than the earlier combinations .
' ' in general , mergers are very hard on morale , ' ' she said . ' ' there is no question that this one has a tougher emotional toll . ' '
the bank ' s executives are making the best of a bad situation . they have taken advantage of the slowdown to cut around 8 percent of the combined banks ' staff , or about 2 , 500 more employees than anticipated at the time the merger was announced .
many of these job cuts were aimed at high - cost investment bankers : j . p . morgan chase expects that 6 , 000 jobs in its investment banking division will have been eliminated by the end of the year .
' ' we have focused on the tougher jobs to cut , ' ' ms . dublon said .
in some ways the overall market turmoil has made it easier for j . p . morgan chase to overhaul its staff . with fewer jobs available on wall street , mr . shapiro said , the employees who are left behind are less apt to complain about changes in their jobs . ' ' people have fewer options , ' ' he said , ' ' so you have a little more control over the process . ' '
thanks partly to these cuts , the bank estimates the saving from cost cutting will be $ 3 . 6 billion annually , compared with an original projection of $ 2 billion at the time of the merger .
the cost cutting has helped compensate somewhat for a sharp drop in profits in the bank ' s core businesses . ' ' what we can control and are managing very aggressively is the expenses of the company , ' ' ms . dublon said in a conference call with reporters on oct . 17 , the day earnings were announced .
aside from cost cuts , the weakness on wall street makes it hard for the bank ' s executives to point to tangible gains in investment banking , where fees were down 24 percent in the third quarter . but mr . harrison points to market - share gains the bank has achieved at the expense of competitors on wall street . he hopes that when the investment banking business revives , j . p . morgan chase will hold on to these gains .
the bank is particularly proud of its standing in two areas : mergers and acquisitions , and the underwriting of large investment - grade bond deals .
the bank ranked 5 th worldwide in the highly profitable category of advising on mergers during the first nine months of 2001 , up from chase ' s 12 th - place finish and j . p . morgan ' s 10 th - place standing during the same period last year , according to thomson financial securities data .
the merger and acquisitions business , which chase had been slowly building for years , is stronger following the merger with j . p . morgan , said mr . lee , a vice chairman at the bank . as a result , the bank is able to win assignments providing advice to customers who dealt with the old chase only for loans .
mr . lee remains proud of the bank ' s work with enron , the energy company , despite its troubles . j . p . morgan chase , along with citigroup , raised $ 1 billion in bank financing for enron earlier this month . it was also hired to advise the company , which hopes to be saved from collapse by being taken over by dynegy .
the old chase , long a lending powerhouse , would have had a good shot at leading the bank financing , but an advisory role would have been less certain . mr . lee said the investment banker advising enron came from the old j . p . morgan . but with merger activity slow , there are few such deals to go around .
the bank is also proud of its strength in long - term investment - grade bonds , another area that business executives say has been enhanced by the merger . it moved up to second place in that area so far this year , compared with sixth place a year ago .
the bank has taken advantage of a boom in large corporate bond offerings , a surge driven by today ' s low interest rates . in may j . p . morgan chase raised $ 12 billion in bonds for worldcom , the telecommunications company , in the largest corporate debt deal in the united states on record .
unfortunately for j . p . morgan chase , the fees for underwriting investment - grade debt are small compared with the money to be earned coordinating offerings of stock , where j . p . morgan chase remains a second - tier competitor .
the bank actually lost market share in the rankings for underwriters of stock , falling to 9 th place this year , compared with the old j . p . morgan ' s 6 th - place finish a year ago . ( chase was 11 th . )
mr . harrison said the bank was taking advantage of the slowdown in stock offerings to build momentum slowly in that business . ' ' we think we have a chance in the second half of this year to be in the top five , ' ' he said .
given the slowdown , some bankers predict that mr . harrison will ultimately do another deal , either to expand his consumer banking business or to bolster weak areas in investment banking , like the equity division .
' ' the general view is that the combination with j . p . morgan didn ' t do enough , ' ' one investment banker said .
mr . harrison disagrees : ' ' i don ' t feel , ' ' he said , ' ' we need to do another large deal to be successful . ' '
photo : william b . harrison jr . , the chief executive , says he has no doubts about the wisdom of forming j . p . morgan chase , even though the the economy has slowed since then . ' ' i can ' t tell you how happy i am about having done th