Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 22 / 01
corrections
the new york times , 11 / 22 / 01
employees ' retirement plan is a victim as enron tumbles
the new york times , 11 / 22 / 01
circling the wagons around enron
risks too great to let trader just die
the new york times , 11 / 22 / 01
enron ' s japan subsidiary reviewing its business
associated press newswires , 11 / 22 / 01
major enron unit stake may be sold for under $ 700 m - source
dow jones international news , 11 / 22 / 01
japan : shock waves from enron crisis felt in japan .
reuters english news service , 11 / 22 / 01
major enron unit stake may be sold for under $ 700 m - source
dow jones international news , 11 / 22 / 01
japan : shock waves from enron crisis felt in japan .
reuters english news service , 11 / 22 / 01
enron ' s wessex water unit faces possible bid from institutions - report
afx news , 11 / 22 / 01
enron seeks to stave off collapse
the times of london , 11 / 22 / 01
investors take profits for second straight day ; some believe market may have moved too fast in recent upturn
san jose mercury news , 11 / 22 / 01
shares take step backward in trading before holiday
the new york times , 11 / 22 / 01
enron ' s cash woes endanger merger ; dynegy mulls whether to ask for renegotiation
chicago tribune , 11 / 22 / 01
valuation not what it used to be
chicago tribune , 11 / 22 / 01
world stock markets - bad news from techs heralds wall st decline .
financial times , 11 / 22 / 01
companies section a
employees ' retirement plan is a victim as enron tumbles
by richard a . oppel jr .
11 / 22 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
the rapid decline of the enron corporation has devastated its employees ' retirement plan , which was heavy with company stock , and has infuriated workers , who were prohibited from changing their investments as the stock plunged .
through the 401 ( k ) retirement plan , employees chose to put much of their savings in enron shares , and the company made contributions in company stock as well . but around the time enron disclosed serious financial problems last month , the company froze the assets in the plan because of an administrative change . for several weeks , as the stock lost much of its value , workers stood by helplessly as their retirement savings evaporated . they were not allowed to switch investments at all - - even though the plan had far less risky choices .
the unfortunate timing caps a year of pain for enron ' s workers . at the end of last year , the 401 ( k ) plan had $ 2 . 1 billion in assets . more than half was invested in enron , an energy conglomerate . since then , the stock has lost 94 percent of its value .
at portland general electric , the oregon utility acquired by enron four years ago , some workers nearing retirement have lost hundreds of thousands of dollars . the utility has lined up grief counselors to help them work through their problems .
' ' we had some married couples who both worked who lost as much as $ 800 , 000 or $ 900 , 000 , ' ' said steve lacey , an emergency - repair dispatcher for portland general . ' ' it pretty much wiped out every employee ' s savings plan . ' '
' ' shortly after it was frozen , the articles started coming out about some of the questionable activities of enron , ' ' mr . lacey added . ' ' the stock took a tremendous drop , and we were pretty much helpless . ' '
the loss serves as a grim reminder of the danger of relying too heavily on one investment . stock plunges similar to enron ' s have also wiped out the retirement savings of many employees of the nortel networks corporation , lucent technologies inc . and global crossing ltd .
the loss by enron ' s workers also stands in stark contrast to the profits made by some senior enron executives , who sold stock during the last few years . enron ' s chairman , kenneth l . lay , made $ 20 . 7 million during the first seven months of 2001 by exercising stock options - - and more than $ 180 million by exercising options during the three prior years . last week , mr . lay agreed to forgo a $ 60 million severance package after enron traders and employees made clear how upset they were that he would profit from the proposed acquisition of the company by dynegy inc . while they were suffering .
enron - - which is already the subject of a securities and exchange commission investigation of transactions among enron and partnerships headed by the company ' s former chief financial officer , andrew s . fastow , and a number of shareholders ' suits - - now has an additional legal problem .
on tuesday , steve w . berman , a lawyer from seattle who represented states against the tobacco industry , filed a lawsuit in federal district court in houston seeking class - action status on behalf of enron employees who lost money on the stock through their retirement plan . the lawsuit says that enron schemed to pump up the price of the stock artificially and violated its fiduciary duty to its employees by failing to act in their best interests .
' ' they were promoting enron as a retirement investment vehicle and matching employees ' contributions with enron stock , when they knew the stock was overvalued , and that ' s a breach of their fiduciary duties , ' ' mr . berman said in an interview yesterday .
what ' s more , he said , the assets were frozen on oct . 17 , with the stock at $ 32 . 20 , even though enron executives knew there would be imminent disclosures about the company ' s accounting practices . ' ' they knew the worst news was about to come out , but they froze the stock , ' ' he said .
enron closed yesterday at $ 5 . 01 .
the company declined to comment on much of the allegations because of pending litigation . a spokeswoman , karen denne , said that the change in plan administrators had been in the works for a number of months and that she did not know the exact date the change was put into effect .
like many other big companies , enron made its contributions to the plan in company shares . but employees also chose to put much of their own contributions into the stock , lured by its stellar past performance . the company says that 89 percent of the enron stock in the plan wound up there because employees chose it , and 11 percent was the company ' s contribution .
' ' a lot of people believed in the stock , so it wasn ' t just the company match , ' ' said an employee at enron ' s headquarters in downtown houston . ' ' it was their own money , too . people are just shell - shocked . ' '
the stock ' s past performance had lured many workers . last year , as the stock soared , total assets in the 401 ( k ) plan rose more than 35 percent .
about 57 percent of enron ' s 21 , 000 employees participate in the 401 ( k ) plan . the company generally matches employee contributions at 50 cents on the dollar , up to 6 percent of their salary , with enron stock , which cannot be sold and put into another investment until the employee reaches age 50 . but ms . denne said workers otherwise ' ' have a range of options ' ' in which to invest their money .
gerry o ' connor , a senior consultant with the spectrem group , a consulting firm based in chicago , said it was not uncommon for companies to freeze assets when administrators were switched . ' ' if you don ' t , you can wind up with misallocated money , wrong statements , and all kinds of complicating factors , ' ' he said .
but a heavy dose of assets in one company stock has been a concern to many specialists in retirement planning . employees are taking ' ' a lot of risk , but they don ' t think of it as such , ' ' mr . o ' connor said .
' ' they say , ' you know , i work for this company , and we ' re doing great . ' ' '
in addition to the swoon in their 401 ( k ) plans , enron employees have watched the value of their stock options wither . enron gave a far larger percentage of employees options than most companies do , but now , with the fall in enron shares , nearly all of those options are worthless .
enron ' s tumbling fortunes have come as a particular shock to some of its workers in oregon . about 95 percent of the 2 , 700 employees of portland general , which enron recently agreed to sell to help it raise badly needed cash , are invested in the 401 ( k ) plan , said scott simms , a spokesman .
the losses , he added , have hit everyone ' ' including officers all the way through to other staff . ' '
' ' it ' s certainly not something in which certain employees have lost out and others haven ' t , ' ' he said . ' ' it was the same plan for everyone . ' '
in an interview with the oregonian in portland , peggy y . fowler , portland general ' s chief executive , said the asset freeze was an unfortunate coincidence . ' ' the timing couldn ' t have been worse , ' ' she said .
' ' we refer to our retirement program as a three - legged stool - - social security , the company pension and the 401 ( k ) , ' ' ms . fowler said . ' ' one of the legs has been cut off . ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
circling the wagons around enron
risks too great to let trader just die
by andrew ross sorkin and riva d . atlas
11 / 22 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
officials of dynegy yesterday weighed whether to seek to renegotiate the terms of the company ' s agreement to acquire enron , its houston rival , while enron and its bankers sought to shore up its finances , executives close to the two companies said .
the discussions came as the stock and energy markets continued to register doubts about the financial stability of enron , the energy trading concern . enron ' s stock fell another 27 percent , even though the company won a three - week reprieve from its banks on a $ 690 million note that would have come due next tuesday if enron had been unable to come up with collateral .
an executive close to enron described the loan extension , by j . p . morgan chase and citigroup , as a band - aid , given the approach of thanksgiving . ' ' people are trying to take the time to come up with something for the intermediate term , ' ' the executive added .
the bankers also met with investors , including leveraged buyout firms and two industrial companies , which might inject up to $ 2 billion into enron under arrangements that would protect them from a further collapse in the company ' s stock , the executives said .
the new investments would be in enron ' s transwestern pipeline , which links natural gas fields in texas to the california market , they said . the deals would be structured like dynegy ' s agreement , as part of the merger , to infuse $ 1 . 5 billion into the enron subsidiary that owns the northern natural gas pipeline . that arrangement lets dynegy keep the pipeline even if the merger falls apart .
besides talking with other potential investors , j . p . morgan chase and citigroup agreed to terms that have each taking a $ 250 million equity stake in such a deal , the executives said . the bankers plan to meet with enron officials on monday to complete the transactions , they added .
karen denne , an enron spokeswoman , noted that the company had previously said it was seeking a further infusion of up to $ 1 billion in equity . ' ' we are not going to discuss the specifics of who we are talking to , ' ' she said .
though investors again manhandled the stock of enron , which is down 94 percent this year , the banks , dynegy and credit - rating agencies all sought to proceed delicately . executives explained that hasty moves could only deepen the crisis of confidence in enron , wiping out the energy trading operations that only months ago made it one of the nation ' s most admired and politically influential companies .
dynegy officials worried yesterday that even talking about renegotiating the merger deal could damage confidence in enron among investors and other energy traders .
an executive close to dynegy said that there did not yet appear to be legal grounds on which to break up the deal unilaterally . nor , he added , was dynegy prepared to demand that enron allow the terms of the deal to be changed . but he indicated that the situation could change .
ms . denne , the enron spokeswoman , said that she was not aware of any attempts by dynegy to renegotiate the deal . dynegy issued a statement saying that its chief executive , chuck watson , was encouraged by the steps enron had taken with its bankers . mr . watson said the company was continuing its due diligence on the deal .
dynegy ' s shares , which rose as high as $ 46 . 94 in the days after the merger was announced , on nov . 9 , closed yesterday at $ 39 . 76 , down more than 4 percent for the second consecutive day .
enron was the most actively traded stock on the new york stock exchange , closing at $ 5 . 01 , down $ 1 . 98 . that means the premium that dynegy would be paying for enron has risen to 115 percent .
analysts following enron ' s debt said that bankers had little choice but to support the company , given that most of enron ' s bank debt is not secured . that means that if bankers pushed enron into bankruptcy , they would receive no better treatment than the holders of more than $ 6 billion in enron bonds and other debt .
enron said it was in talks with lenders to restructure $ 9 . 15 billion in debt that will come due by the end of 2002 . ' ' if the dynegy deal closed , that would be the best thing for the banks , ' ' said one analyst following the debt .
james b . lee jr . , vice chairman of j . p . morgan chase , echoed that thought in a statement issued by enron . ' ' we believe the interests of chase and enron ' s other primary lenders are aligned in this restructuring effort , ' ' he said . ' ' we will work with enron and its other primary lenders to develop a plan to strengthen enron ' s financial position up to and through its merger with dynegy . ' ' along with citigroup , j . p . morgan chase is enron ' s lead bank , and it is also an adviser on the merger with dynegy .
another group with the power to push enron to the brink , the big credit - rating agencies , continued to step gingerly . the agencies have held enron ' s debt rating one step above ' ' junk ' ' status , knowing that downgrading it further would force the company to pay or refinance up to $ 3 . 9 billion in debt - - effectively rendering enron insolvent . one rating agency official said yesterday that such a move would roil the entire debt market , adding that it was ' ' patriotic ' ' to hold off .
still , one rating agency , fitch , put out a strongly worded commentary yesterday .
' ' if dynegy steps away entirely from the merger , enron ' s credit situation seems untenable , with a bankruptcy filing highly possible , ' ' wrote ralph pellecchia and glen grabelsky , the fitch analysts following enron . ' ' our present bbb - rating rests on the merger possibility and continued support of the lending banks , without which fitch would consider lowering the rating . ' '
analysts and energy executives said that enron ' s collapse - - though unthinkable just weeks ago - - would be unlikely to cause a meltdown in the nation ' s energy markets . while enron has been the nation ' s biggest trader of electric power and natural gas , many other companies - - including dynegy - - make markets in those commodities . analysts say the gradual unfolding of enron ' s financial woes this fall has given its trading partners time to unwind deals and limit their exposure to enron .
yet even one of enron ' s most stubborn supporters was forced to concede yesterday that his confidence had been shattered by the company ' s problems , including the rapid depletion of its cash reserves , restatements that erased $ 600 million in earnings and the surprise disclosure of the $ 690 million debt .
that fan , goldman , sachs & company ' s energy analyst , david fleischer , downgraded the shares to neutral . until yesterday , goldman had kept the stock on its recommended list .
photo : kenneth l . lay of enron , left , and chuck watson of dynegy , on nov . 9 , when the acquisition was announced . ( associated press ) chart : ' ' the stock ' s collapse ' ' enron ' s stock has lost more than 90 percent of its value in the last year . graph tracks the daily closing price of enron shares from november 2000 to yesterday . ( source : bloomberg financial markets )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron ' s japan subsidiary reviewing its business
11 / 22 / 2001
associated press newswires
copyright 2001 . the associated press . all rights reserved .
tokyo ( ap ) - the japanese subsidiary of enron corp . , the beleaguered u . s . energy trading company , is reviewing its business here and hopes to conclude its findings in the next few weeks , a company spokeswoman said thursday .
earlier this month , rival dynegy inc . said it plans to acquire enron . enron has begun an assessment of its global operations .
enron japan corp . , a wholly owned subsidiary of the houston - based company , began its own assessment about a week ago , said spokeswoman mika watanabe .
enron japan ' s business includes e power corp . , a venture set up in japan by enron and orix corp . , a leasing company , which had been studying possible electric power plants .
shares of enron plummeted another 28 percent wednesday even though it reached a critical agreement to extend a $ 690 million debt payment .
analysts continued to question , however , whether dynegy ' s planned $ 8 . 9 billion acquisition of its larger rival enron will survive , particularly as some traders are limiting business with enron because they don ' t know if more negative revelations are coming .
enron shares have plunged more than 90 percent over the past several months following the departure of the company ' s chief executive and an accounting controversy that eventually caused it to restate its earnings since 1997 , eliminating more than $ 580 million of reported income .
its latest round of woes started monday , after enron filed a document with the securities and exchange commission saying it would have to repay $ 690 million in debt by nov . 26 because of decreased credit ratings .
enron japan was established in april 2000 and employs about 60 people , and had hoped to eventually break into japan ' s power industry , which is gradually growing more open .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
major enron unit stake may be sold for under $ 700 m - source
11 / 22 / 2001
dow jones international news
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones 91 - 11 - 461 - 9426 ; himendra . kumar @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
japan : shock waves from enron crisis felt in japan .
11 / 22 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
tokyo , nov 22 ( reuters ) - the shock waves from the crisis at enron corp are being felt in japan , where the stressed energy group has about 60 billion yen ( $ 486 . 9 million ) of bonds outstanding , money market dealers said on thursday .
dealers said most of enron ' s yen - denominated bonds are believed to be held by japanese investors .
in the u . s . bond market , enron ' s 6 . 4 percent dollar - denominated notes maturing in 2006 were selling at a deep discount of 62 cents on the dollar on wednesday .
the price of enron ' s yen bonds are also under pressure , but because the japanese market is far less liquid than the u . s . market it is virtually impossible to quote a price .
" even if you want to sell them , there ' s no one is out there to buy , " said a market source , who declined to be identified .
some investors holding enron ' s bonds put on brave face .
" enron ' s core business is still doing fairly good . and we have bonds due next may . so we have concluded that there won ' t be grave concerns for its redemption , " said yasushi inoue , manager at ufj partners asset management .
some in the market are concerned , however , that some money management funds ( mmfs ) have enron bonds in their portfolio .
mmfs , seen as an alternative to bank deposits , generally invest in safe assets in order to secure stable fixed income .
but because the bank of japan has been guiding short - term rates to near zero since last march , some funds are allocating money to riskier bonds , or commercial paper , to raise returns .
five mmfs run by four asset management companies hold enron bonds totaling about 38 . 5 billion yen nominal value .
default worry
should enron default on the yen bonds , the price of those mmfs would fall below their purchase price , meaning some funds would be unable to fully pay back the money entrusted to them .
although mmfs technically do not guarantee principle , they are widely regarded be almost as safe as deposits .
" if the mmf prices fall below purchase price , investors may lose confidence in mmfs , which could trigger an exodus of funds out of mmfs , " said the market source .
that would force fund managers of mmfs to sell a large part of assets in their funds , which could in turn push up short - term interest rates .
" i could not rule out such possibility , " said the source .
separately on thursday , enron said it was reviewing operations in japan , including an option to sell the business to a third party .
" enron corp is reviewing its operations in japan . . . considering every possibility including retaining the operations or selling a part of it , " a spokeswoman in tokyo said .
the company will likely finalise its plans within five or six weeks , she said .
enron gained its first foothold in japan in 1999 , when it established affiliate e power corp , hoping to benefit from japan ' s deregulation of the retail power market .
in april last year , it set up enron japan corp , which has so far introduced electricity trading and marketing and other financial instruments . the company has 70 employees in japan .
shares of enron closed down 28 . 33 percent at $ 5 . 01 on the new york stock exchange on wednesday . ( $ 1 = 123 . 22 yen ) .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron ' s wessex water unit faces possible bid from institutions - report
11 / 22 / 2001
afx news
( c ) 2001 by afp - extel news ltd
london ( afx ) - at least four financial institutions are circling wessex water plc as possible bidders for the south - west of england water company that enron , the struggling us energy group , needs to sell , according to the financial times .
the newspaper did not name its source , but said royal bank of scotland plc , candover investments , westlb and barclays capital are understood to have expressed an interest in buying wessex , which provides water and sewage services to 2 . 4 mln people .
nomura , the japanese investment bank , has previously expressed an interest in wessex .
enron , which bought wessex in 1998 for 1 . 36 bln stg revealed on monday that it must repay 6 . 35 bln stg of debt by the end of next year .
the newspaper said a purchase is likely to be complicated .
enron - - subject of a 9 bln usd bid from dynegy , its smaller us energy rival - - could be faced with a charge of 650 mln usd if the combined value of azurix , which controls its water interests , falls to 1 . 95 bln usd or 25 pct below its book value , the newspaper said . ml / rn for more information and to contact afx : www . afxnews . com and www . afxpress . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
business
enron seeks to stave off collapse
chris ayres in new york
11 / 22 / 2001
the times of london
news international
final 4
30
( copyright times newspapers ltd , 2001 )
directors of enron , the us energy group with close ties to president bush , will spend today ' s thanksgiving holiday locked in emergency negotiations to save the company from collapse , after a 44 per cent plunge in its share price over two days .
investors were increasingly worried last night that rival dynegy ' s $ 8 . 9 billion ( pounds 6 billion ) all - stock rescue bid will fall apart over the holiday period . as part of the deal , chevrontexaco , which owns a quarter of dynegy , will inject $ 1 . 5 billion of emergency funding into enron .
enron , which has admitted to huge accounting errors amid a securities and exchange commission inquiry , said on monday that it could be forced to pay back $ 690 million of debt because of its deteriorating creditworthiness . in a crucial concession , that payment was yesterday delayed to mid - december . it will have to pay another $ 9 . 1 billion by the end of 2002 .
enron is being investigated by the sec for allegedly making complex investment deals that kept billions of dollars of debt off the company ' s books .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones some believe market may have moved too fast in recent upturn
by amy baldwin , associated press
11 / 22 / 2001
san jose mercury news
morning final
6 c
( c ) copyright 2001 , san jose mercury news . all rights reserved .
new york - - doubtful that the stock market ' s latest surge can be sustained indefinitely , investors secured profits for the second straight day wednesday , leaving prices moderately lower .
' ' it is a bit of recognition that the market may have moved too , too fast , ' ' said alan ackerman , executive vice president of fahnestock & co .
after weeks of swooping up stocks on their increasing belief the economy will turn around in 2002 , investors were expected to lock in some gains .
the dow jones industrial average closed down 66 . 70 , or 0 . 7 percent , at 9 , 834 . 68 . profit - taking brought the dow 75 points lower tuesday , but the blue chips had climbed 368 points in the previous six sessions .
the dow is 19 . 4 percent above its 2001 low of 8 , 235 . 81 on sept . 21 , which followed a 1 , 369 - point plunge the first week of trading following the sept . 11 terrorist attacks .
' ' it ' s not surprising to see some profit taking under way . the market has literally run a mile , ' ' ackerman said .
the broader market also slipped wednesday . the nasdaq composite index pulled back 5 . 46 , or 0 . 3 percent , to 1 , 875 . 05 and the standard the s & p 500 , up 17 . 7 percent .
' ' frankly , the market from sept . 21 to today has gone from an extremely oversold condition to an extremely overbought condition , ' ' said larry wachtel , market analyst with prudential securities .
volume was lighter than normal wednesday as many traders took the day off ahead of today ' s thanksgiving holiday . the market will have an abbreviated session friday .
a positive report on consumers ' mood failed to motivate investors to buy . the university of michigan consumer sentiment index rose to 83 . 9 percent in november , up from 82 . 7 percent in october , according to what index subscribers told dow jones news service .
stocks fell across most sectors and industries , in keeping with how widespread the market ' s run - up has been . among wall street ' s losers were companies whose outlooks or performance disappointed investors .
in technology , dow industrial microsoft fell $ 1 . 35 to $ 64 . 05 after salomon smith barney downgraded its rating on the software maker . triquint semiconductor tumbled nearly 12 percent , down $ 2 . 33 at $ 17 . 22 , having said its fourth - quarter results will be at the low end of previous estimates .
debt - ridden enron slid 28 percent , down $ 1 . 98 at $ 5 . 01 , amid worries about the company ' s ability to handle its spiraling financial problems . rival dynegy fell $ 1 . 94 to $ 39 . 76 on concerns over its $ 8 . 9 billion merger with enron , slated to be completed by summer .
department - store retailer dillard ' s fell 50 cents to $ 15 . 05 after posting a third - quarter loss that was 6 cents a share wider than wall street expected .
meanwhile , investors rewarded companies that offered positive prospects for their future . amgen rose $ 4 . 07 to $ 61 . 98 after the biotech company said tuesday earnings per share will grow in the 20 percent range next year .
xerox gained 67 cents to $ 7 . 67 after deutsche bank alex . brown raised its rating on the stock . { chart } chart : mercury news 150
source : media general
chart
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
the markets : stocks & bonds
shares take step backward in trading before holiday
by reuters
11 / 22 / 2001
the new york times
page 5 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
stocks retreated further from bull - market territory yesterday , as traders hesitated to hold big positions going into the thanksgiving holiday with worries about the short - term health of the economy and corporate earnings .
even a bullish economic report , which showed the number of americans lining up for first - time unemployment benefits was down for a fourth consecutive week , could not overcome fears that a recovery was still a way off .
' ' the market has been levitating - - you could pass a hoop over it and see there ' s not a lot of fundamental support , ' ' said jeffrey kleintop , chief investment strategist for pnc advisors , who said his firm had sold bonds but was holding cash instead of buying stocks .
' ' jobless claims were down , ' ' he said , ' ' and that ' s a good sign , but we ' re still a long way from seeing the bottom in earnings for corporations . ' '
indeed , analysts do not expect quarterly profits to start to increase again until at least the second quarter of next year , according to the market research firm thomson financial / first call .
amgen bolstered health shares after the company , a leader in biotechnology , said strong sales of new drugs would help earnings increase faster than analysts had expected . but big technology names like microsoft fell .
the dow jones industrial average dropped 66 . 70 points , or 0 . 7 percent , to close at 9 , 834 . 68 , down for the second session after clambering into bull - market territory on monday . a bull market is defined as a gain of at least 20 percent from a recent low .
the standard there will be a half - day of trading tomorrow .
enron , the most - active stock on the new york stock exchange for a second consecutive session , tumbled $ 1 . 98 , to $ 5 . 01 , on worries the company may not stay afloat long enough to be rescued in a pending takeover by dynegy .
enron said it had won a three - week reprieve from its banks on a $ 690 million note and reaffirmed its agreement to be taken over by dynegy . but shares remained lower after the announcement .
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
treasuries are lower
( by bloomberg news )
treasury bond prices fell yesterday as jobless claims declined for a fourth week and a consumer confidence index rose , bolstering expectations the economy may have bottomed .
the 10 - year treasury note fell 22 / 32 , to a price of 100 14 / 32 . the note ' s yield , which moves in the opposite direction from the price , rose to 4 . 95 percent from 4 . 87 percent on tuesday .
the price of the 30 - year treasury bond fell 17 / 32 , to 100 11 / 32 . the bond ' s yield rose to 5 . 35 percent from 5 . 32 percent on tuesday .
graph tracks the dow jones industrial average over the past year . ( sources : associated press ; bloomberg financial markets ) tables : ' ' hot ' ' the favorites ' ' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at merrill lynch . ( compiled from staff reports , the associated press , bloomberg news , bridge news , dow jones , reuters ) chart : ' ' freddie mac yields ' ' average for federal home loan mortgage corp . participation certificates , plotted weekly . graph tracks averages of 15 and 30 - year mortgages from july through november . ( source : f . h . l . m . c . )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones dynegy mulls whether to ask for renegotiation
from tribune news services
11 / 22 / 2001
chicago tribune
north final ; n
1
( copyright 2001 by the chicago tribune )
officials of dynegy inc . on wednesday weighed whether to seek to renegotiate the terms of an agreement to acquire enron corp . , its houston rival , while enron and its bankers sought to shore up the energy trader ' s finances , executives close to the two firms said .
although enron said it secured the remaining $ 450 million of a new $ 1 billion credit line and pushed back the deadline for repaying a $ 690 million debt , its shares fell a further 28 percent , after falling 23 percent on tuesday .
" if dynegy steps away entirely from the merger , enron ' s credit situation seems untenable , with a bankruptcy filing highly possib