Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 24 / 01 - 11 / 25 / 01
accounting peer review gets more scrutiny
the new york times , 11 / 25 / 01
an alternate reality
the new york times , 11 / 25 / 01
will new york be told , once again , to drop dead ?
the new york times , 11 / 25 / 01
dot - com is dot - gone , and the dream with it
the new york times , 11 / 25 / 01
california wary of dynegy bid to buy out enron energy : both companies are prominent players in the state ' s power market . the move to combine their strength is raising some concerns .
los angeles times , 11 / 25 / 01
enron ' s troubles could spur securities reforms
los angeles times , 11 / 25 / 01
enron says it ' s still in talks with possible investors for cash
bloomberg , 11 / 25 / 01
enron money woes raise concerns
los angeles times , 11 / 25 / 01
hooked on a fast - growth habit ; ceos reach for double - digit results despite downturn , and some are making costly mistakes
the washington post , 11 / 25 / 01
usa : enron employees sue as pension savings evaporate .
reuters english news service , 11 / 25 / 01
india press : aditya birla may buy enron ' s dabhol stake
dow jones international news , 11 / 25 / 01
companies & finance uk - enron seeks survival pact to aid dynegy ' s $ 9 bn rescue .
financial times , 11 / 24 / 01
equity markets - power companies pack more punches - wall street .
financial times , 11 / 24 / 01
world stock markets - wall st loses shine off its blue chip rise .
financial times , 11 / 24 / 01
wait until dark
the new york times , 11 / 24 / 01
heartened by holiday shopping , shares rise in quiet day
the new york times , 11 / 24 / 01
dynegy scrambles to save enron deal energy : shares of the acquisition target have fallen 45 % since the merger was announced . analysts say the companies might renegotiate .
los angeles times , 11 / 24 / 01
lawsuit slows msn broadband roll - out internet : the action by partner enron hurts sales during important holiday season , analysts say . the service has reached only 33 of the 45 targeted markets .
los angeles times , 11 / 24 / 01
review could alter terms of enron sale to dynegy
chicago tribune , 11 / 24 / 01
business blue chips turn in a strong day , reversing profit - taking sessions
san jose mercury news , 11 / 24 / 01
dynegy , advisers pore over enron details ; deal
san jose mercury news , 11 / 24 / 01
workers , nest eggs devastated
portland oregonian , 11 / 24 / 01
analysis : travails of the enron corporation
npr : weekend edition - saturday , 11 / 24 / 01
dynegy ' s right to enron pipeline may be disputed , barron ' s says
bloomberg , 11 / 24 / 01
deal still on as enron shares drop 6 %
houston chronicle , 11 / 24 / 01
money and business / financial desk ; section 3
investing : diary
accounting peer review gets more scrutiny
compiled by jeff sommer
11 / 25 / 2001
the new york times
page 8 , column 1
c . 2001 new york times company
the accounting industry ' s watchdog group is examining the industry ' s ' ' peer review ' ' process in light of enormous accounting problems at the enron corporation .
the group , called the public oversight board , will meet next week to consider whether reviews of audits being conducted by accounting firms adequately safeguard the public interest , according to its chairman , charles bowsher . the session comes after revelations by enron that it had overstated earnings by nearly $ 600 million over four years and that it had inflated shareholder equity by $ 1 . 2 billion because of ' ' an accounting error . ' '
arthur andersen has been enron ' s outside auditor for more than a decade , and its work has been submitted periodically to deloitte & touche for ' ' peer reviewing . ' ' one such review is being conducted now .
representative john dingell , a michigan democrat , said in a letter to mr . bowsher that no big five accounting firm had ever issued a negative report after a peer review . mr . bowsher told bloomberg news that the oversight board would ask : ' ' how can you have peer reviews and still have these kinds of failures ? ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section 4
reckonings
an alternate reality
by paul krugman
11 / 25 / 2001
the new york times
page 11 , column 1
c . 2001 new york times company
most americans get their news from tv . and what they see is heartwarming - - a picture of a nation behaving well in a time of crisis . indeed , the vast majority of americans have been both resolute and generous .
but that ' s not the whole story , and the images tv doesn ' t show are anything but heartwarming . a full picture would show politicians and businessmen behaving badly , with this bad behavior made possible - - and made worse - - by the fact that these days selfishness comes tightly wrapped in the flag . if you pay attention to the whole picture , you start to feel that you are living in a different reality from the one on tv .
the alternate reality isn ' t deeply hidden . it ' s available to anyone with a modem , and some of it makes it into quality newspapers . often you can find the best reporting on what ' s really going on in the business section , because business reporters and commentators are not expected to view the world through rose - colored glasses .
from an economist ' s point of view , the most revealing indicator of what ' s really happening is the post - sept . 11 fondness of politicians for ' ' lump - sum transfers . ' ' that ' s economese for payments that aren ' t contingent on the recipient ' s actions , and which therefore give no incentive for changed behavior . that ' s good if the transfer is meant to help someone in need , without reducing his motivation to work . it ' s bad if the alleged purpose of the transfer is to get the recipient to do something useful , like invest or hire more workers .
so it tells you something when congress votes $ 15 billion in aid and loan guarantees for airline companies but not a penny for laid - off airline workers . it tells you even more when the house passes a ' ' stimulus ' ' bill that contains almost nothing for the unemployed but includes $ 25 billion in retroactive corporate tax cuts - - that is , pure lump - sum transfers to corporations , most of them highly profitable .
most political reporting about the stimulus debate describes it as a conflict of ideologies . but ideology has nothing to do with it . no economic doctrine i ' m aware of , right or left , says that an $ 800 million lump - sum transfer to general motors will lead to more investment when the company is already sitting on $ 8 billion in cash .
as jonathan chait points out , there used to be some question about the true motives of people like dick armey and tom delay . did they really believe in free markets , or did they just want to take from the poor and give to the rich ? now we know .
of course , it ' s not all about lump - sum transfers . since sept . 11 there has also been a sustained effort , under cover of the national emergency , to open public lands to oil companies and logging interests . administration officials claim that it ' s all for the sake of national security , but when you discover that they also intend to reverse rules excluding snowmobiles from yellowstone , the truth becomes clear .
so what ' s the real state of the nation ? on tv this looks like world war ii . but though our cause is just , for 99 . 9 percent of americans this war , waged by a small cadre of highly trained professionals , is a spectator event . and the home front looks not like wartime but like a postwar aftermath , in which the normal instincts of a nation at war - - to rally round the flag and place trust in our leaders - - are all too easily exploited .
indeed , current events bear an almost eerie resemblance to the period just after world war i . john ashcroft is re - enacting the palmer raids , which swept up thousands of immigrants suspected of radicalism ; the vast majority turned out to be innocent of any wrongdoing , and some turned out to be u . s . citizens . executives at enron seem to have been channeling the spirit of charles ponzi . and the push to open public lands to private exploitation sounds like teapot dome , which also involved oil drilling on public land . presumably this time there have been no outright bribes , but the giveaways to corporations are actually much larger .
what this country needs is a return to normalcy . and i don ' t mean the selective normalcy the bush administration wants , in which everyone goes shopping but the media continue to report only inspiring stories and war news . it ' s time to give the american people the whole picture .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section 3
market watch
will new york be told , once again , to drop dead ?
by alex berenson
11 / 25 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
nearly 11 weeks after the worst terrorist attack in history , new york is discovering just how much the rest of the united states cares about the nation ' s business and financial center .
not much .
early hopes that the nation would rally to help the city overcome the devastating economic impact of sept . 11 appear to have been misplaced . not only is gov . george e . pataki ' s ill - advised pitch for $ 54 billion in federal aid all but dead , apparently the city will struggle to get the $ 20 billion that president bush promised .
yes , many of the city ' s economic problems are self - inflicted . with a municipal work force of 250 , 000 , new york employs one - seventh as many people as the federal government , excluding the armed forces . to support that bureaucracy , the city has the highest taxes of any local government in america . development is absurdly difficult , even outside manhattan . roads and bridges are a mess .
but all of that was true before sept . 11 , and new york somehow made do . in fact , a record number of new jobs were created here in 2000 , according to steven malanga , senior fellow at the manhattan institute , a conservative policy group . ' ' in the last seven or eight years , the city ' s economy has rebounded in a way that ' s very encouraging , ' ' he said .
the attacks changed all that . by discouraging people from coming to crowded places like times square , terrorism strikes at the heart of new york , said mitchell moss , director of the taub urban research center at new york university . ' ' new york ' s economy is built on interaction , ' ' he said . the industries that have suffered most severely are new york ' s most important employers : tourism , media , advertising and financial services , which was due for cuts even before the attacks .
last month , the city lost 79 , 000 jobs , a record . the slowdown has blown a hole in city and state budgets , which are precariously balanced at the best of times . the citizens budget commission , a nonpartisan fiscal watchdog organization , predicts that the city will face a budget deficit of $ 4 billion next year .
mayor rudolph w . giuliani has asked city agencies to cut their budgets by 15 percent . more cuts are coming . libraries will close earlier . parks will be dirtier . and city workers , who had been asking for big raises , will have to accept layoffs or pay cuts .
even so , the city cannot get out of this hole alone . with taxes already too high , it cannot reach much deeper into its citizens ' pockets . and there are limits to how much it can cut services . a little federal help would go a long way toward righting the city ' s budget gap and restoring confidence in new york .
mr . moss suggests the federal government take two steps to show its commitment to the city . first , it should help create a hub in lower manhattan that would connect transit lines from new jersey and long island with the subway . second , it should support ' ' security zones ' ' where high - profile securities firms and media companies could congregate if they wished .
for now , at least , it appears that washington will let new york sink or swim on its own . that decision is foolish for both economic and symbolic reasons .
if new york cannot right itself , the securities firms that are among its most important employers are as likely to move jobs to london or hong kong as chicago or atlanta . and if new york ' s streets grow dirty and its crime rate soars , other countries may question washington ' s promises of aid to those that try to deter terrorism . will a government that does not bother to aid its largest city in the wake of the worst terror attack in history really do much for islamabad or cairo ?
' ' what do we have a federal government for if it ' s not to give aid to state and local governments , at the level people live and get most of their government services ? ' ' asks james a . parrot , an economist at the fiscal policy institute , a labor - backed research organization .
it is worse than unseemly that lawmakers are offering to pass a tax bill that will give billions of dollars to companies like enron and i . b . m . while refusing to send new york money that that city has already been promised . it is ( whisper this word ) unpatriotic .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section 9
dot - com is dot - gone , and the dream with it
by john schwartz
11 / 25 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 2
c . 2001 new york times company
mark leibovich recalled the day in 1999 when he showed up early for an appointment at a washington dot - com . mr . leibovich , a reporter for the washington post , was there to interview the company ' s executives . ' ' i got there just in time to see the c . e . o . himself wheeling a foosball table into the lobby ' ' to give the impression that the high - tech firm possessed the desired quantum of wackiness that its silicon valley counterparts are famous for .
that is so over , and so much more over , even , than before . the popular obsession with the dot - com revolution , fading for more than a year , seems to have simply winked out since mid - september , as firemen and warriors have become the new heroes , and e - commerce ' s whiz kids are consigned to the cultural boneyard .
not much more than a year ago , boosters of the new economy and their true believers in the press were claiming to have changed all the rules . not just in tech - fetish magazines like wired , but in self - styled cultural arbiters like new york magazine , which declared the 1990 ' s the ' ' e - decade . ' ' in a 1999 cover story , the essayist michael wolff - - himself a failed dot - com executive - - announced a brave new world . ' ' there is , at the elusive center of the e - experience , the fantasy that we might become free of economic laws , ' ' he wrote . ' ' all it takes to make otherworldly riches is the will and desire . ' ' it wasn ' t enough to make money . they had to make history .
now they themselves are history . each day , the old idols seem to fade further into the dim past , barely recollected in a country where the languages of ' ' revolution ' ' and ' ' warfare ' ' are no longer just business metaphors . this is the next step after the bursting of the dot - com economic bubble - - the bursting of the cultural bubble , the end of the nerd as a crossover hit , of the i . p . o . zillionaire as role model to college students .
the changing of the guard can be seen in little things . like henry blodget , the industry analyst who became famous for predicting early that amazon . com would reach $ 400 a share , announcing that he is taking a buyout and leaving merrill lynch at the grand old age of 35 .
like the growing wave of books that focus not on the dot - com path to riches but on the wild plunge into the abyss . having failed to sell their dreams , they are now attempting to sell their failure . a documentary of the rise and fall of a silicon alley company was chronicled in ' ' startup . com ' ' by sebastian nokes , released last winter . books by former dot - com executives are arriving in stores . two of the first are ' ' a very public offering : a rebel ' s story of business excess , success , and reckoning ' ' by stephan paternot , founder of theglobe . com , and ' ' dot . bomb : my days and nights at an internet goliath , ' ' by j . david kuo . another is coming soon : ' ' boo hoo , ' ' the chronicle of the spectacular failure of boo . com , the luxury fashion site that burned through $ 185 million of its investors ' cash and had an online life of just six months , told by its profligate founders .
did we mention that mr . blodget is writing a book ?
for the most part , however , the flood of dot - com failure stories is being met with a national yawn . the tell - all books have bounced around the amazon . com rankings without making inroads into best - seller territory . and why not ? because former idols have feet of clay . in ' ' a very public offering , ' ' a book written as amateurishly as the company was run , did we need the image of mr . paternot dancing the night away in plastic pants ?
ellen degeneres ' s new sitcom , ' ' the ellen show , ' ' is built around the notion of an executive returning to her hometown after the collapse of her dot - com , but the show sits at the miserable ranking of 93 rd for the season - - behind ' ' emeril , ' ' the celebrity chef comedy - - despite ms . degeneres ' s own considerable appeal .
to amitai etzioni , a sociologist at george washington university , the country is experiencing an abrupt cultural shift away from the libertarian , individualistic values that were expressed in the celebration of the new economy and toward more old - fashioned values in the wake of the terrorist attacks , when government is not the problem and people are not the market . ' ' there ' s been a sea change , ' ' he said . the surge in charitable giving and blood donations after sept . 11 , he said , underscores ' ' the sense that you ' re willing to give priority to the common good , to public safety and public health . ' '
paulina borsook , the author of ' ' cyberselfish , ' ' a critical look at dot - com values published last year , said : ' ' people really crave a reminder of human bonds that have to do with sacrifice and fellowship and getting to know each other over time . it ' s not about changing jobs every six months and getting stock options . ' '
in the 90 ' s , college students hoping to emulate marc andreessen of netscape and other geek stars migrated to silicon valley or new york ' s silicon alley with thin resumes and visions of testarossas dancing in their heads . that ' s all changing , said thomas t . field , director of the center for the humanities at the university of maryland , baltimore county . ' ' many of the young adults that i see coming to campus now say they want fulfilling jobs , not just ways of earning money , ' ' he said . ' ' sounds awfully familiar , when you come from the 60 ' s generation . ' '
professor field suggested that protests over globalism , and the sense of security that flourished during the boom , made young people more willing to question the status quo and to take chances . during the i . p . o . frenzy , he said , students could not wait to get out of school and begin earning . this year , many of his students have chosen to study abroad in china , nepal , india and egypt .
the country is in dot - com denial , ms . borsook said , adding , ' ' no one wants to admit that they were caught up in it , ' ' an attitude she calls ' ' i don ' t want to think that i drank the kool - aid . ' '
good riddance , said thomas frank , the author of ' ' one market under god : extreme capitalism , market populism and the end of economic democracy . ' ' the book is a withering attack on the ideas underlying the selling of the new economy , which he says co - opted hipness and the language of populism to serve greed and gain . the book has come out in paperback with a new afterword . ' ' it ' s going to take some time for it to sink in , ' ' mr . frank said . ' ' the dow isn ' t going to go to 36 , 000 , and the dot - coms aren ' t going to come back - - and a lot of people lost a lot of money . ' '
though dot - com executives might seem irrelevant these days , the technologies they sold , by and large , are not , pointed out paul saffo , an analyst at the institute for the future in menlo park , calif . ' ' people haven ' t stopped using the internet , ' ' he said . ' ' the fact is that it is changing the world , and it has changed the world . ' ' people now expect to be able to buy a book or make an airline reservation in the middle of the night , ' ' and it ' s washed into the rest of their lives . ' '
kevin kelly , who as a longtime editor of wired magazine helped create the heroic ethos surrounding dot - com entrepreneurs , acknowledged ' ' it came tumbling down with the towers . ' ' but mr . kelly insisted that these people would rise again . the generation of tyro executives who crashed and burned ' ' got better business education than they could if they had gotten a harvard m . b . a . , ' ' he said . ' ' they didn ' t set out to learn , but , boy , they are much smarter now . ' ' he predicts that the last decade has been the ' ' layup ' ' for a true cultural revolution to come - - he could not be specific , and his words may strike many as more dot - com hyperbole .
it takes a special kind of gall for the same people who argued that the ' ' long boom ' ' suspended the laws of economics , and even unraveled the cycles of history , to fall back now on analysis of historical cycles to support their arguments .
but to believe any less goes against the american grain , argued jason mccabe calacanis , the editor of the now - defunct silicon alley reporter . the dot - commer , seen today as a scam artist , will be reborn , he said , smarter and tougher , because he represents optimism itself . ' ' it ' s the belief that the future - - the individual ' s future and the future of the economy - - are going to be better in five years than they are today . ' '
but still . take a look at the book ' ' radical e ' ' by glenn rifkin and joel kurtzman , which offers ' ' lessons on how to rule the web ' ' after the bust . it extols companies that truly understand how to marry the world wide web to business . ' ' after five tumultuous years of hype and hysteria , ' ' the authors promise , ' ' the real advent of the web and e - business is now . ' '
one of the book ' s chief examples of a company that does it right , enron , has been in the news a lot lately , though not because of astute exploitation of e - commerce . no , enron - - which trades energy via the web - - has seen its stock collapse 90 percent .
photos : the giants of e - commerce , who walked among us , are culturally extinct now with a war on . ( reuters ) ( pg . 1 ) ; no sure thing - - ellen degeneres , left , with cloris leachman , in a sitcom about a dot - commer who has moved back home . the show ranks 93 rd . ( monty brinton / cbs ) ( pg . 4 )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones financial desk
california wary of dynegy bid to buy out enron energy : both companies are prominent players in the state ' s power market . the move to combine their strength is raising some concerns .
nancy rivera brooks
times staff writer
11 / 25 / 2001
los angeles times
home edition
c - 1
copyright 2001 / the times mirror company
dynegy inc . of houston has been hailed as a hero on wall street , as it rides to deliver cross - town rival enron corp . from its self - inflicted ills and save energy markets from serious distress through its proposed $ 9 - billion buyout of the world ' s largest energy trader .
but in california , dynegy has a different image .
dynegy , co - owner of several southern california power plants , has been the quietest member of the " big five " group of energy producers commonly portrayed as villains by california politicians and regulators . gov . gray davis and others have called dynegy and its fellow energy suppliers " gougers " and " pirates " who manipulated the market and charged too much for electricity , precipitating california ' s blackout - studded energy crisis .
partly because of the heightened political sensitivities to all things surrounding california ' s energy problems , the state is expected to play a central role in the proposed merger between dynegy and enron , antitrust experts and others say . the state ' s attorney general ' s office already has begun scrutinizing the proposed combination .
if it merges with enron , another favorite davis target , dynegy would be a powerhouse in energy trading , electricity generation and natural gas transmission . and the combined firm would have a strong presence in california , which some find troubling .
" i would hope that the people who look at the antitrust implications would consider this one carefully , " said state sen . steve peace ( d - el cajon ) , one of the architects of california ' s failed foray into electricity deregulation , who became a fierce critic of power producers and resellers . " if anything , dynegy would be in an even stronger position to be able to manipulate markets than it was before . "
dynegy agreed on nov . 9 to buy enron through a stock swap valued at about $ 9 billion and to inject $ 2 . 5 billion into crumbling enron provided by cash - rich chevrontexaco corp . , the san francisco - based oil company that owns nearly 27 % of dynegy . but a continuing trickle of disturbing financial disclosures keep slamming enron ' s stock price , indicating that investors have their doubts that the deal will be completed as negotiated .
the enron purchase would hurl dynegy , which is about a quarter of enron ' s size , into the top ranks of energy merchants .
in california ' s energy world , dynegy already is a key company . at every significant twist in the state energy crisis , dynegy was there , although not as visibly as some of the other power - plant owners and electricity resellers .
enron and reliant energy inc . , also of houston , and duke energy corp . of charlotte , n . c . , drew particular fire from politicians and consumer advocates during the last 18 months as energy leaped higher . but dynegy also was accused by the state ' s grid operator of reaping excessive profit through its electricity bidding practices and , to a lesser extent , by holding back some electricity from its southern california power plants .
in addition , dynegy signed long - term electricity contracts with the state that have been singled out by critics for containing potentially lucrative clauses requiring that the state pay emissions costs and other costs .
the california independent system operator , which runs the long - distance power transmission grid serving much of the state , has asked federal regulators to ban dynegy from selling power at market prices . cal - iso has made the same request concerning the other major power plant owners : duke , reliant , atlanta - based mirant inc . and aes corp . of arlington , va . , which markets its power through an agreement with williams cos . of tulsa , okla .
" dynegy has sort of slid by under the radar , " said doug heller of the foundation for taxpayer & consumer rights , a consumer activist group .
" not only did dynegy do very well , but particularly its trading and marketing division did very well over the course of the last two years . it profited wildly . "
for its part , dynegy rejects accusations of market manipulation , saying it has played a constructive role in the california marketplace , stepping forward to be one of the first companies to sign long - term contracts with the state when its need was greatest despite an electricity debt of $ 300 million owed the company by the state and its utilities .
" dynegy has acted ethically and responsibly in california , " said dynegy spokesman john sousa . " the fundamental problem in california is that supply did not keep up with demand . "
" dynamic energy "
accused of overcharging
dynegy was created in 1984 as a natural gas trading operation known as natural gas clearinghouse to take advantage of the deregulation of natural gas prices . under chief executive chuck watson , the company has expanded into natural gas processing and distribution and electricity generation , changing its name along the way to dynegy , a word created by combining " dynamic " and " energy . "
in california , dynegy owns power plants capable of generating 2 , 800 megawatts of electricity through a partnership with nrg energy inc . of minneapolis . ( a megawatt can supply about 750 average homes with electricity . )
the state ' s big investor - owned utilities were required to sell some of their power plants by the landmark 1996 deregulation legislation . by the end of 1998 , the dynegy / nrg partnership had purchased three large power plants in long beach , el segundo and san diego and a collection of 17 small " peaker " plants from southern california edison co . and san diego gas & electric co .
under the arrangement between the partnership , nrg operates the power plants and dynegy markets the electricity from them . it is dynegy ' s bidding practices in selling that power into state markets that put it , along with other energy producers , on the wrong side of the state grid operator and federal energy regulators .
among the allegations :
* in a report released in march , cal - iso accused energy producers and resellers , including dynegy , of overcharging californians by $ 6 . 7 billion between may 2000 and march 2001 . power suppliers have denied the allegations . the report also found that dynegy reaped about $ 32 million in " monopoly rents " between may and november of last year , or profits beyond what a competitive market would bear . that was the fourth - highest total for any company noted in the report . enron was ranked sixth , taking $ 27 . 9 million in such profits .
* cal - iso said dynegy maximized profits primarily through a practice known as " economic withholding , " or bidding electricity at prices so high that they would be rejected , thereby pushing up the price charged for the remaining generation sold into the market . dynegy also did some " physical withholding , " cal - iso said , meaning that the company withheld electricity supplies to drive up the price .
* dynegy was accused last april in hearings before state legislators of hoarding space on a key natural gas pipeline into california in 1998 and 1999 , causing natural gas prices to soar . dynegy executives testified that the charge was untrue .
* when federal regulators ordered $ 125 million in potential refunds for the first four months of the year , dynegy ' s portion was the largest among the power sellers named , representing slightly more than one third . dynegy said its prices were justified by high natural gas prices , emissions costs and other factors .
dynegy president stephen bergstrom said in april that the company was " unfairly and inaccurately accused of withholding power from the california market . "
" as we have repeatedly communicated to california policymakers and regulators and to industry officials , we remain ready and willing to generate and sell power to any and all buyers at fair and reasonable prices when they are able to provide appropriate assurances that they will fulfill their obligation to pay for those purchases . "
a recent report by the state department of water resources backs up dynegy ' s assertions that its prices have been in line with the rest of the market .
during the first three months of this year , after sky - high prices pushed edison and pg & e so close to insolvency that the state had to step in and buy power for their customers , dynegy sold power to the dwr at an average price of $ 239 . 63 per megawatt - hour for electricity . that was slightly below the average of $ 268 . 90 per megawatt - hour charged by all sellers .
dynegy portrays itself as a minor player in the california market , representing about 4 % of the state ' s generation .
but cal - iso , in asking federal regulators to revoke dynegy ' s authority to sell power at market rates , said " dynegy has profited systematically from the exercise of market power to the significant harm of california ' s electric consumers and economy . " a decision is pending .
officials reviewing the dynegy - enron merger will closely review the companies ' operations in california .
although enron owns no power plants in california , it is believed to have long - term contracts with some generators , although spokesman eric thode refused to detail them .
in addition , enron has a hand 