Subject: enron mentions
enron and dynegy discuss plan to cut price of acquisition
the wall street journal , 11 / 27 / 01
fair shares ? why company stock is a burden for many - - and less so for a few - - - workers often must hold on to stakes held in 401 ( k ) s ; top brass have options - - - hedging for the ` upper tier '
the wall street journal , 11 / 27 / 01
' stimulus ' for enron
the new york times , 11 / 27 / 01
enron talking with dynegy as they work to rescue deal
the new york times , 11 / 27 / 01
top companies issuing debt at a fast pace
the new york times , 11 / 27 / 01
battered enron in search of $ 1 billion ; stock ' s decline raises doubts about buyout
the washington post , 11 / 27 / 01
enron , dynegy deal back on table
houston chronicle , 11 / 27 / 01
sizable staff of 245 lawyers in merger limbo
houston chronicle , 11 / 27 / 01
bin laden threat against pipelines taken seriously
houston chronicle , 11 / 27 / 01
current recession differs from others
houston chronicle , 11 / 27 / 01
enron gains on optimism dynegy purchase to proceed ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 27 / 01
deutsche banc alex . brown ' s tice comments on enron corp . debt
bloomberg , 11 / 27 / 01
investors bet enron deal will go bust ; dynegy could kill deal or drop price
chicago tribune , 11 / 27 / 01
pressure mounts on enron buyout energy : stock drops to its lowest since ' 87 on doubts dynegy deal will go through . workers sue over shrinking 401 ( k ) s .
los angeles times , 11 / 27 / 01
global investing - a creative approach to property liabilities .
financial times , 11 / 27 / 01
usa : enron may cut price of dynegy deal by 40 percent - wsj .
reuters english news service , 11 / 27 / 01
enron , dynegy discuss plan to cut price of acquisition
dow jones business news , 11 / 27 / 01
report : enron , dynegy deal back on table
associated press newswires , 11 / 27 / 01
money make - over club sticks together through thick , thin
los angeles times , 11 / 27 / 01
enron workers file another suit to recover losses in retirement accounts
afx news , 11 / 27 / 01
fate of enron ' s forest products group up in the air , in an advisory by industrialinfo . com
business wire , 11 / 27 / 01
enron , dynegy to rework $ 24 b deal
the daily deal , 11 / 27 / 01
india : enron india unit , lenders to meet in uk this week .
reuters english news service , 11 / 27 / 01
man arrested for issuing e - mail threat to enron
the times of india , 11 / 27 / 01
companies & finance the americas - demand for electricity re - energises gas project .
financial times , 11 / 27 / 01
the americas - bolivia urged to handle its new - found wealth with care .
financial times , 11 / 27 / 01
usa : update 1 - enron lawsuit seen as wake - up call for pensions .
reuters english news service , 11 / 26 / 01
usa : calif . attorney gen ' l to examine dynegy - enron deal .
reuters english news service , 11 / 26 / 01
dynegy may modify enron purchase terms , people say ( update 2 )
bloomberg , 11 / 26 / 01
enron faces new employee suit alleging securities violations
bloomberg , 11 / 26 / 01
california agency must generate revenue , analyst says ( update 3 )
bloomberg , 11 / 26 / 01
enron plunges , but dynegy will suffer , too
thestreet . com , 11 / 26 / 01
enron and dynegy discuss plan to cut price of acquisition
by rebecca smith and robin sidel
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 27 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
enron corp . , struggling to save its two - week - old deal to be acquired by dynegy inc . , was in advanced discussions with dynegy to cut the price of the all - stock transaction by more than 40 % to about $ 5 billion , according to people familiar with the matter .
beleaguered enron also was in continuing negotiations to extend the maturity dates of some of its borrowings in order to stem a growing liquidity crisis , these people said . enron has total debt of about $ 13 billion . increasingly , analysts are worried that the giant energy - trading concern ' s relatively few hard assets are so encumbered by debt that they can ' t be used to support further borrowing .
enron stock slid to its lowest level in over a decade at 4 p . m . yesterday on the new york stock exchange , falling 70 cents to $ 4 . 01 a share . over the past few months , about $ 60 billion of enron ' s stock value has evaporated , a process that has accelerated since mid - october when the company announced a quarterly loss and a subsequent reduction in its equity base . since then , revelations that company executives profited from partnerships used to move assets on and off enron ' s books have spooked investors and triggered a securities and exchange commission investigation . recently , the company has twice restated earnings for past periods amid indications that its vaunted energy trading business is showing some signs of stress .
the move to renegotiate the acquisition agreement , and particularly to slash the number of dynegy shares that enron holders would receive , only two weeks after the pact ' s signing is virtually unheard of in corporate transactions . while terms are sometimes altered due to unanticipated developments , that typically doesn ' t happen until a transaction is nearly completed .
enron had hoped to finalize arrangements and make an announcement yesterday that would calm its anxious investors , but the situation remained fluid throughout the day . as of yesterday evening , the revised deal still hadn ' t been formalized .
the deal is critical for enron . in recent weeks , credit - rating agencies have indicated they will refrain from further cuts to enron ' s credit rating so long as a dynegy purchase appears probable . but if that deal collapses , downgrades could occur that would put enron below investment grade and in violation of credit agreements with counterparties . this in turn could deal a savage blow to enron ' s commodity - trading business that is its lifeblood .
negotiators for the two companies returned to their home bases of houston yesterday after spending much of the holiday weekend meeting in suburban new york where they tried to agree on new provisions to the deal , which was announced nov . 9 . both dynegy and enron declined to comment on the discussions .
one apparent sticking point in the talks was arriving at a new stock - exchange ratio . under the current acquisition agreement , dynegy would exchange 0 . 2685 share for each enron share tendered . based on yesterday ' s new york stock exchange closing price of $ 39 . 25 for dynegy shares , down $ 1 . 15 , enron holders stand to receive $ 10 . 53 a share for their stock , or a total of about $ 9 billion .
people close to the discussions said the new ratio is expected to be less than 0 . 15 share of dynegy stock for every share of enron stock , which would value enron at less than $ 6 a share , or about $ 5 billion .
another contentious issue concerns the amount of additional capital enron needs to shore up its finances . a week ago , the company disclosed it may have to post hundreds of millions of dollars or more to honor collateral calls before the end of the year . the problem for potential lenders is finding good assets to back these continued infusions of capital sought by enron .
as part of the original merger agreement , dynegy already has injected $ 1 . 5 billion into enron , receiving in exchange preferred stock in its northern natural gas co . pipeline system that runs from the upper midwest to texas . under the agreement , if the acquisition falls apart , dynegy " will have the right to acquire 100 % of the equity in the northern natural gas subsidiary , " thus giving it " the full value of its investment . "
but that arrangement is raising questions on wall street about whether creditors are throwing good money after bad . northern natural gas already is heavily encumbered with debts . in addition to $ 500 million in unsecured public debt and $ 1 . 5 billion put in by dynegy and co - investor chevrontexaco inc . , a bank consortium led by j . p . morgan chase & co . recently put in an additional $ 450 million in cash backed by northern ' s assets . the bank consortium also provided $ 550 million to enron , against which assets of enron ' s transwestern pipeline co . unit were pledged . this system , a network between texas and california , is the only other domestic gas - transportation system fully owned by enron .
that brings total indebtedness to nearly $ 4 billion for two enron pipeline systems that only generated transportation revenue of $ 77 million and $ 41 million , respectively , in the third quarter . enron ' s entire natural - gas pipeline business , which includes two other partially owned systems , produced pretax earnings of $ 85 million for the third quarter , flat with the year - earlier period . some observers said that if the enron deal to be acquired by dynegy falls apart , this could set the stage for a fight among the different classes of creditors for a priority claim on the pipeline assets .
- - -
jathon sapsford contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones top brass have options - - - hedging for the ` upper tier '
by ellen e . schultz and theo francis
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 27 / 2001
the wall street journal
al
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
in the 1990 s , as the stock market climbed year after year , many corporations and their employees entered into a marriage of convenience : the company would dole out its own shares as compensation and benefits . employees would have a steadily appreciating asset that encouraged loyalty and created an incentive to work hard for the company ' s success .
they ' re still doing it . gillette co . , for example , " believes it is important that employee interests be aligned with company interests , " says spokesman stephen k . brayton , echoing the explanations of dozens of other companies that use their own stock for executive pay , incentive bonuses , or contributions to 401 ( k ) retirement - savings accounts .
but as share prices have fallen over the past year and a half , it has become clear that not all stock handouts are created equal . millions of rank - and - file workers at hundreds of companies have found themselves shackled to big chunks of company stock , while executives are able to exercise wide latitude in what they do with theirs . because of the law capping tax - deductible executive compensation at $ 1 million a year , many companies top off their executive pay packages with stock options , as well as bonuses and other incentives that are typically paid in stock , much of it unencumbered .
based on filings with the securities and exchange commission , hundreds of companies use their own stock in lieu of cash as their matching contributions to employees ' retirement - savings accounts . and the majority of those restrict the ability of employees to sell the shares and move the proceeds into mutual funds and other alternatives offered through their 401 ( k ) s . benefits consultants hewitt associates found in a recent study that nearly half of 215 firms offering company stock in their 401 ( k ) plans only contribute their own shares to employee accounts , and that 85 % of those companies restrict sales of the stock .
gillette doesn ' t let employees switch out of its stock contributions to their 401 ( k ) s until age 50 , according to government filings . at coca - cola co . , it ' s age 53 . procter & gamble co . , qwest communications international inc . and troubled enron corp . - - now facing lawsuits over employees ' 401 ( k ) losses - - are among the many others that impose similar restrictions . so far this year , gillette employees have had to watch the company - contribution portion of their retirement savings shrink by millions of dollars as the share price has fallen 11 % . employees at coca - cola have endured a share - price decline this year of 18 % . procter the value of mr . anschutz ' s shares covered in the agreement would have plunged to $ 127 million from $ 394 million . ( those shares amounted to about 3 . 3 % of mr . anschutz ' s total holding of 300 million shares , or 18 % of qwest ' s shares outstanding , both directly and through a company he controls . )
a forward - sale agreement wasn ' t available to joseph daugherty . he has been stringing and repairing telephone cable for 23 years , first for bell south corp . and then in the salt lake city area for u s west , which was acquired by qwest last year .
a few months ago , he was looking forward to early retirement next summer . but now , he says , he ' ll have to keep working . the $ 200 , 000 in assets he had in his 401 ( k ) in early may has shrunk to roughly $ 50 , 000 . part of that loss is attributable to the retirement plan ' s rules , which don ' t allow most workers to shift out of company - contributed qwest shares until age 55 . mr . daugherty , who concedes he ' s a risk - taker , blames himself for the rest : he voluntarily sank the remainder of his 401 ( k ) savings into qwest stock .
qwest won ' t comment on the finances of either mr . daugherty or mr . anschutz . but steve hammack , a qwest spokesman , says u s west established the policy of contributing company stock . he notes that starting jan . 1 , 2001 , the company began allowing managers to diversify company stock contributions they receive this year into other investments available through the plan . the restrictions on union members , he says , are covered by the company ' s collective bargaining agreement .
" the fact is , " mr . hammack responds in an email , " the majority of companies in the u . s . that match employee contributions do so in their own company stock . a good number also restrict employees from diversifying out of the company match . "
erisa , the federal law governing pension plans , provides employees with little legal traction to complain about their forced 401 ( k ) holdings . employer contributions to retirement - savings plans aren ' t generally subject to fiduciary rules . ( as for employee contributions , employers are supposed to choose " prudent " investment options . )
retirement - savings plans are exempt from erisa diversification rules , too . these rules make it illegal for a company ' s pension plan to invest more than 10 % of its assets in the company ' s own securities . but savings plans such as 401 ( k ) s can generally invest as much as 100 % of the assets in company stock with impunity . currently , roughly one - third to one - half of retirement - plan assets at large companies are invested in company stock . that suits employers , which would just as soon contribute stock as draw down precious cash , and in the past , they have lobbied successfully to defeat efforts to impose diversification rules on 401 ( k ) s .
that confounds people such as mr . triska , the technician at enron ' s portland general electric unit . " anyone will tell you that you need to diversify to reduce risk , " he says .
diversification has spared mr . triska some of the pain experienced by co - workers who bet big on enron in their retirement savings . since sept . 10 , while the enron shares in his 401 ( k ) have plunged 86 % , his shares in weitz partners value fund have declined only 4 . 52 % , and his shares in fidelity growth company and janus global life sciences funds have risen 7 . 3 % and 2 . 2 % , respectively .
enron executives are subject to the same restrictions on enron ' s stock contributions to their 401 ( k ) s as other employees : no sales of company - contributed stock until age 50 . but company filings with the sec show that " key management and highly compensated employees " also participate in separate retirement - savings plans that don ' t require them to hold enron stock at all . executives can pile as much as 35 % of their salaries and 100 % of their bonuses annually into these accounts , allocating the money among a variety of investments .
further , sec filings show that so far this year , many enron executives were steady sellers of company stock they had accumulated beyond the ambit of their 401 ( k ) s . former enron broadband services chief executive kenneth rice , for example , sold enron shares valued at $ 23 . 7 million during the period , and former ceo jeffrey skilling sold $ 27 . 5 million of enron stock .
" we believe it ' s important for employees to have a stake in the company , " says karen denne , a spokeswoman for enron . " it ' s also important that we align employee and company performance . "
- - -
cassell bryan - low contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section a
letters to the editor
' stimulus ' for enron
11 / 27 / 2001
the new york times
page 18 , column 4
c . 2001 new york times company
to the editor :
re ' ' in new filing , enron reports debt squeeze ' ' ( business day , nov . 20 ) :
as congress and federal investigators begin looking into a host of questions about management ' s role in the company ' s collapse , i note that the bush - g . o . p . ' ' stimulus ' ' plan calls for united states taxpayers to give enron $ 254 million .
since it was enron management ' s greed that ran the company into multibillion - dollar debt , why should we citizens pay for its irresponsibility ?
arlie schardt
washington , nov . 20 , 2001
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
enron talking with dynegy as they work to rescue deal
by by richard a . oppel jr . and andrew ross sorkin
11 / 27 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
the enron corporation and its would - be rescuer , dynegy inc . , are renegotiating the terms of their deal , originally valued at $ 9 billion , executives close to the discussions said yesterday .
there were several issues still on the table last night , and the situation was very fluid , the executives said . but they said that the companies hoped to announce , perhaps as early as today , a series of changes : a lower price for the takeover ; a cash infusion of $ 500 million ; an agreement by some banks to extend the repayment dates of enron debt until after the deal closes ; and possibly an agreement making clear that the merger would not be derailed by litigation over enron ' s devastated employee - retirement plan .
the sides were also negotiating ways to tighten clauses in the merger agreement so that dynegy would not be able to use information from enron ' s recent filing with the securities and exchange commission as a reason for backing out of the deal .
both companies declined to comment on whether renegotiations were taking place .
but according to executives close to the talks , the new terms would lower the ratio of dynegy stock to be exchanged to roughly 0 . 15 share for each share of enron . the original deal , announced nov . 9 , called for each enron share to be exchanged for 0 . 2685 share of dynegy . but enron ' s shares have been plunging steadily , and yesterday the current offer was valued at 163 percent over enron ' s closing price .
the companies hope that by releasing some good news , they can stem the slide in the price of enron ' s stock and traded debt . enron shares , which have been plunging since mid - october when the company began to disclose a series of losses and accounting errors , closed yesterday at $ 4 . 01 , down 14 . 9 percent , or 70 cents . shares of dynegy closed at $ 39 . 25 yesterday , down 2 . 9 percent , or $ 1 . 15 .
more important , the executives close to the talks said , the companies hope to restore confidence in enron ' s energy - trading operation , which showed signs of deterioration yesterday . in recent years , enron has traded more natural gas and electricity than its two biggest competitors combined , and its trading floor is viewed as its most valuable franchise , accounting for most of the company ' s profit .
dynegy ' s biggest worry , according to the executives , is that this core business is deteriorating . the company fears that if other energy traders further curtail their business with enron - - either on their own or in response to another cut in enron ' s credit rating - - then much of the value of the company could be wiped out , they said .
the urgency of the situation has been made clear by the way in which enron is being treated in the energy - trading markets , some analysts and executives at rival energy companies say . though some large traders are still doing business with enron , many other traders have curtailed their dealings with the company for fear they may not get paid if enron collapses and files for bankruptcy protection .
in addition , some of the energy trading enron is doing is costing it more money because of credit concerns . for example , analysts and energy executives say , enron is in some cases being forced to pay 3 cents to 6 cents more per million british thermal units of natural gas . that means instead of paying perhaps $ 1 . 80 per million b . t . u . ' s in some trades , it may be paying $ 1 . 84 .
jeff dietert , an analyst with simmons & company in houston , said the price discrepancies on some trades were also showing up on enrononline , the internet platform that accounts for much of the company ' s trading with other parties .
' ' we ' re seeing enron ' s prices , ' ' mr . dietert said , ' ' be about a nickel higher on enrononline versus some of the competing internet - based exchanges . ' ' if these credit premiums should continue , it could erode enron ' s trading profits and worsen its already tenuous liquidity situation .
an enron spokeswoman , karen denne , said trading volumes were ' ' below average , ' ' yesterday , but she declined to be more specific . she did say the company was in discussions about a new equity infusion of $ 500 million to $ 1 billion .
according to executives close to the talks , details were still being worked out on the cash infusion , which would come from citigroup and j . p . morgan chase . dynegy may also add cash to the deal while reaffirming the company ' s commitment to the merger .
executives at rival trading companies said dynegy needed to do something to bolster confidence in enron ' s trading operations .
' ' in places , enron is paying up to 4 or 5 or 6 cents more for next - day gas , ' ' said an executive at one large energy trader . ' ' some producers out there don ' t want to sell additional discretionary gas to enron , so they ' re having to pay up . ' '
the executive also said most energy traders expected that dynegy would obtain a much lower merger price because enron had little or no room to fight a renegotiation .
' ' if enron hasn ' t lined something else up , their other choice is bankruptcy , ' ' he said . ' ' you can guess what shareholder value is going to look like if that ' s the case . ' '
copyright ? 2000 dow jones section c
top companies issuing debt at a fast pace
by stephanie strom
11 / 27 / 2001
the new york times
page 1 , column 5
c . 2001 new york times company
in the weeks since the attack on the world trade center , blue - chip corporations have issued a torrent of debt .
ford , general electric , i . b . m . , kraft , at & t , general motors and other companies have doubled and even trebled their initial plans for bond offerings as investors , disenchanted with the stock market , have all but begged to buy their debt . in all , companies have issued 31 . 5 percent more debt in the last 11 weeks than they did in the period a year earlier .
the companies are taking advantage of the chance to raise cash at bargain basement prices , thanks to low interest rates , and to retire more expensive debt .
but they may also have little - discussed concerns that money will be scarce in the future , particularly if the economic downturn persists and the recovery is less vigorous than economists now hope . bank lending is at a 30 - year low , according to the conference board , and buyers are hard to find for commercial paper , the short - term , cheap debt that corporate purebreds rely on . standard it was able to raise $ 9 . 4 billion and is said to be thinking about trying to raise $ 7 billion more .
kraft foods , part of the philip morris companies , had planned to issue $ 2 billion worth of bonds . instead , it offered $ 4 billion .
at & t raised $ 10 . 1 billion , twice as much as it originally planned . at & t ' s and ford ' s issues rank as the second - and third - largest ever .
all told , 573 corporations have issued $ 181 billion of debt since sept . 11 , compared with 692 companies that raised $ 138 billion in the period last year , according to thomson financial / first call .
' ' when you look at other asset classes , the corporate bond market offers some of the better values , ' ' said bob lobue , head of the investment - grade fixed - income syndicate at j . p . morgan , which has underwritten roughly half the issues that have come to market since sept . 11 . ' ' there ' s still a lack of confidence in stock valuations based on the weakness we ' re seeing in earnings . ' '
issuers and their underwriters most often cite the low interest rates on treasury bills as the reason for the surge in corporate debt . corporate bonds are often priced in relation to united states government debt , and thanks to a cascade of interest rate cuts by the federal reserve this year , well - heeled companies can borrow at extremely attractive rates .
international business machines , for instance , recently sold $ 1 . 5 billion worth of five - year notes with the lowest coupon it has ever issued , 4 . 875 percent .
others , though , read the stampede of premier companies to issue debt as a sign that credit is getting tight . investment - grade companies typically juggle a smorgasbord of debt - - short , intermediate and long term - - but they are definitely skewing the mixture toward the long end these days . no doubt , that is because debt is cheap - - but it also suggests that they may foresee a time when money will be more scarce and are accumulating the war chests mr . cunningham referred to .
it was not so long ago , after all , that companies experienced a credit shortage . ' ' a credit crunch was brewing last year , ' ' mr . cunningham said , ' ' until the fed stepped in and started aggressively lowering interest rates , which averted it . ' '
but a cash problem persists in some ways despite the federal reserve ' s series of interest rate cuts . ' ' we are in a cash crisis like none we have experienced in recent memory , ' ' said james padilla , a ford executive , in a recent memorandum to his staff .
many companies with less - than - pristine credit ratings have trouble raising money and may be having more because of the stampede by blue - chip companies .
' ' when companies like ford or general electric come into the market , they squeeze a lot of other , somewhat riskier credits out , ' ' said gail d . fosler , the chief economist at the conference board .
jack ablin , chief investment officer at the harris trust and savings bank , said that the economic recovery depended on companies ' being able to get credit .
' ' my primary concern is the lack of available credit across the spectrum , ' ' he said . ' ' we are forecasting an economic recovery in the middle of next year , but the one thing that could go wrong with that forecast is if the availability of credit stays where it is or gets worse . ' '
another concern is that debt is piling up with negative consequences . ' ' the fed is trying to prevent the bubble from bursting by keeping the forces of credit exuberance alive , ' ' barton m . biggs , chief global strategist at morgan stanley , wrote to investors earlier this month . ' ' the trouble is , although it may work in the short run , in the long run the debt burden will be bigger and the adjustment process more painful . ' '
the automakers , for example , are using the money they have raised in part to support the customer incentive programs that offer zero - interest financing . they are paying as much as 7 . 25 percent , in other words , to lend money to car buyers for nothing .
some of the new debt is being used to retire commercial paper . but companies are taking on more than they need to accomplish that goal .
the longer - term money they are borrowing is more expensive than the commercial paper , even if it is cheaper than it has been in a long time . the spread - - the difference in interest rates between treasuries and corporate bonds - - has generally widened since sept . 11 , although not across the board .
' ' there is a cost factor involved , but we try to minimize that , ' ' said david moore , manager of fixed - income investor relations at ford credit , which accounted for the bulk of the $ 9 . 4 billion that ford borrowed last month . ' ' we ' re mindful of our liquidity , and want to make sure we ensure it . ' '
like many of the companies issuing debt , ford is curbing its dependence on the commercial paper market . for the year through oct . 16 , ford had cut the amount of paper it had outstanding by almost 60 percent , to $ 17 billion . ' ' that puts us in a very good position , given our rating , ' ' said mr . moore , who was one of the few executives willing to discuss his company ' s strategy .
ford , like a host of other companies , has had its credit ratings cut . many buyers of commercial paper , like money market funds , lend to only the highest - rated companies . so far this year , standard & poor ' s has knocked 57 companies out of the top ratings for commercial paper , compared with 49 last year .
the total amount of outstanding commercial paper has fallen 30 percent this year , according to diane vazza , head of global financial investment research at standard & poor ' s , thanks to that downgrading and to great caution among investors . ' ' we ' ve seen some issuers driven out of the market , ' ' ms . vazza said .
according to several credit analysts , daimlerchrysler was scheduled to roll over $ 7 billion of commercial paper in june but decided to take the offering to europe , where investors are less particular about ratings quality .
similarly , enron careered into its crisis when it was forced to redeem commercial paper as its credit ratings fell .
the decline in at & t ' s commercial paper ratings was one reason for its big issue last week .
but underwriters of corporate debt insist that the decline in the commercial paper market has more to do with companies ' ability to borrow for the long term cheaply than with their inability to issue short - term debt . ' ' short - term financing does come with a maturity risk in that you constantly have to roll it over in order to maintain liquidity , ' ' said mr . lobue of j . p . morgan .
the underwriters concede , however , that lending by banks has all but dried up , falling to its lowest level in three decades . bank lending has been curtailed at the behest of federal regulators like the federal deposit insurance corporation and the office of the comptroller of the currency at the treasury department , putting them seemingly at cross - purposes with the fed .
the chief executive of echostar , charles w . ergen , had to put up $ 2 . 75 billion of his own money to complete the purchase of the hughes electronic corporation . the bankers at ubs warburg , echostar ' s adviser on the deal , had offered to provide the financing , but only with a proviso that would have let the bank back out of the deal under certain conditions .
although the company later got financing from credit suisse first boston and deutsche bank , many other bankers have privately applauded ubs warburg ' s caution .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones stock ' s decline raises doubts about buyout
peter behr
washington post staff writer
11 / 27 / 2001
the washington post
final
eol
copyright 2001 , the washington post co . all rights reserved
shunned by investors and deserted by many former customers , enron corp . is searching this week for up to $ 1 billion in cash from lenders to sustain its once dominant energy - trading business .
enron stock fell yesterday to new low of $ 4 . 01 a share , down 70 cents , continuing the latest plunge that began last week when the houston company disclosed still more damaging detail about its financial condition .
a year ago , enron stock traded for more than $ 78 a share , based on its leading position then as a trader of power , natural gas , various industrial and telecommunications products and financi