Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 28 / 01
u . s . treasury comment on monitoring enron and credit markets
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron bonds may be good buy for patient investors , analysts say
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
raymond james ' cartwright comments on enron corp . ' s future
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
fraud attorney aguirre comments on possible enron bankruptcy
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron ' s 401 ( k ) plan was set up for fall : david wilson ( update 2 )
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
dynegy ends enron takeover ; credit ratings lowered ( update 8 )
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron ' s ratings cut to junk by s & p , moody ' s , fitch ( update 6 )
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
creditsights ' reynolds comments on downgrade of enron to junk
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
spaeth communications president comments on enron corp . outlook
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
houston astros president says enron ' s name will stay on stadium
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
california power authority ' s freeman comments on enron , dynegy
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron corp . has busiest day ever for a u . s . stock : table
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron appoints troubh to board to lead litigation committee
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron ' s problems may spark demand for treasuries , analysts say
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
ifr pegasus ' s evans comments on enron ' s impact on energy market
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
alliance , janus , putnam among biggest enron owners before drop
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
nvidia to replace enron in s & p 500 at end of trading tomorrow
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
intercontinental exchange ' s ceo sprecher comments on enron
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron to continue utility sale to northwest natural ( update 3 )
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron breached responsibility to employees , lawyer says on cnbc
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
j . p . morgan , citigroup stumble advising enron on sale to dynegy
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron online trading unit stops operating , users say ( update 5 )
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
sempra energy interested in buying some enron assets ( update 4 )
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
u . s . treasury comment on monitoring enron and credit markets
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 04 ( new york )
washington , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - the following is a comment
from michele davis , assistant treasury secretary for public
affairs , on enron corp . dynegy inc . abandoned a takeover bid for
enron today , leaving the country ' s largest energy trader without
enough cash to pay its $ 15 billion in debt . treasury securities
rose after the decision was announced as investors dumped stocks
and moved money into the safety of government debt :
` ` we are monitoring credit markets as we always do
everyday , ' ' davis said . ` ` the markets always fluctuate . we haven ' t
seen anything extraordinary . ' '
enron bonds may be good buy for patient investors , analysts say
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 18 ( new york )
enron bonds may be good buy for patient investors , analysts say
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . debt , which
plunged by half today after its credit rating was cut to junk and
rival dynegy inc . abandoned a planned buyout of the company , may
reward investors willing to hold the bonds while enron sells
assets through a bankruptcy proceeding , analysts said .
enron ' s notes and bonds dipped to as low as 15 cents on the
dollar today after standard & poor ' s cut enron ' s rating six levels
to ` ` b - . ' ' the firm ' s debt issues , which have a combined face
value of more than $ 15 billion according to bloomberg data , traded
mostly between 20 cents and 25 cents this afternoon .
analysts expect enron to file for bankruptcy protection ,
which would put bondholders in line with banks and other creditors
for enron ' s cash and any proceeds from asset sales . under that
scenario , bondholders could get back between 50 cents and 60 cents
on the dollar within three years , said stephen ardizzoni , junk -
bond portfolio manager at smh capital advisors .
` ` you should have a pretty decent return at these purchase
prices , ' ' said ardizzoni , who said he bought some enron notes
maturing in 2003 and bonds maturing in 2019 for between 15 cents
and 20 cents on the dollar today .
bondholders may end up with less if it turns out there are
fewer assets or more liabilities than the company ' s balance sheet
now shows , ardizzoni said . enron has drawn fire for its disclosure
practices , which in recent weeks included revelations of a $ 1 . 2
billion reduction in shareholder equity and an early repayment
date on a $ 690 million note .
like a broker
owners of enron debt may recover 30 cents on the dollar
within two years , mostly from proceeds of sales of enron ' s
pipelines , international assets , and real estate , said jon kyle
cartwright , who follows enron ' s debt for raymond james &
associates inc .
enron , once the biggest energy trader , made most of its money
buying and selling electricity and natural gas . the company can be
likened to a broker because hiring and retaining high - performing
employees and developing relationships is more important than
owning physical assets , cartwright said .
` ` the real value of a broker is with their clients and
personnel . there typically is minimal post - bankruptcy value , ' '
said cartwright . enron ' s trading business doesn ' t have much more
to offer than ` ` office space and the artwork on the walls ' ' in a
bankruptcy proceeding , he said .
marty whitman will consider enron bonds for the $ 4 billion he
helps manage at third avenue funds in new york . still , the 77 - year -
old investor , who specializes in analyzing distressed securities ,
prefers to invest in debt that ' s secured by assets .
said whitman , ` ` i never did understand their trading . ' '
raymond james ' cartwright comments on enron corp . ' s future
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 22 ( new york )
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - jon kyle cartwright , a
senior vice president and senior energy analyst who follows enron
corp . for raymond james & associates inc . in st . petersburg ,
florida , comments on enron ' s outlook after the company ' s credit
ratings were cut to junk status and dynegy inc . abandoned a
takeover bid for the company .
` ` this is a disaster , ' ' cartwright said . ` ` i don ' t know how
they can ' t file ' ' for protection from creditors . ` ` enron isn ' t a
going concern .
` ` it is difficult , if not impossible , for anyone to do trades
with enron ' s trading operations in light of junk ratings across
the board and dynegy walking away from the deal .
` ` no trading , no cash flow . no cash flow , no enron . ' '
cartwright said he thought the company had two months to sort
out its problems and had a buy on the debt when it initially
` ` blew up .
` ` it was a credibility crisis the company could manage in two
months . i ' m sure they are in talks with their bankers right now ,
but i doubt if their bankers could even help them , ' ' he said .
` ` if any ( energy ) trader does business with enron right now ,
it is a career decision .
` ` it will be hard for energy traders to re - adjust to a world
without enron .
` ` this was a self - fulfilling prophecy . it doesn ' t often
happen that a company has a credibility crisis during a recession ,
in a bear market , ' ' cartwright said .
` ` hopefully , what comes out of the ashes of this is an
entirely new group of analysts that will follow what will now be a
bigger growth business - - energy trading .
` ` all of the smaller energy traders are about to become much
bigger , and the market has to learn how to analyze these things as
brokerage firms . ' '
fraud attorney aguirre comments on possible enron bankruptcy
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 28 ( new york )
sacramento , california , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - following are
comments made today by michael aguirre , a partner with san diego -
based law firm aguirre in both 1998
and 1999 , it had been less than a majority .
participants in the plan , which had $ 2 . 14 billion in assets
available for benefits , could only do so much to diversify their
investments . enron , like many other companies , used stock rather
than cash to match employee contributions and restricted sales of
the shares .
and they could only guess at the year - end makeup of the plan ' s
assets until the end of june , reflecting sec disclosure standards
for savings plans . by that time , the stock ' s drop - - which reached
99 percent today - - was already well under way .
trio of lawsuits
enron later reported $ 1 . 01 billion in third - quarter charges ;
ousted chief financial officer andrew fastow , who ran partnerships
that accounted for some of the charges ; restated its results since
1997 ; became the target of an sec accounting investigation ; and
accepted a takeover bid from dynegy inc . , its biggest rival .
the company ' s shares , which ended last year at $ 83 . 13 , closed
at just 61 cents today as enron ' s debt was downgraded to junk - bond
status and dynegy abandoned its offer .
in response to the plunge , employees in the 401 ( k ) plan - -
which allows workers to defer part of their pay and build tax - free
savings , and takes its name from a section of the internal revenue
service code - - have filed three lawsuits against enron .
the suits allege , among other things , that the houston - based
company prevented employees from shifting investments within the
plan between oct . 17 , the day after its disclosure of the charges ,
and nov . 19 as the company made administrative changes .
all three seek class - action status on behalf of the plan ' s
participants . the most recent filing came from the gottesdiener law
firm , based in washington , on monday . it covers the longest time
period : november 1995 to now .
falling percentages
enron shares accounted for 64 percent of the savings plan ' s
assets at the end of 1994 , the year before the period associated
with the gottesdiener suit began . the figure reflected a one - time
company contribution of preferred stock , and rose from 62 percent
in 1993 .
each preferred share has a face value of $ 100 and is
convertible into 27 . 304 common shares . this translates into a
conversion price of $ 3 . 66 a share , a bargain before the common
tumbled 85 percent today .
the plan also owned a stake in enron ' s former oil and gas unit ,
which became eog resources inc . after gaining independence in 1999 .
add in those shares , and company stock represented about two - thirds
of the 1994 assets .
enron ' s common and preferred shares fell to 60 percent of
401 ( k ) assets available for benefits in 1995 , 58 percent in 1996
and 53 percent in 1997 as the u . s . stock market rallied , lifting
the value of participants ' investments in equity mutual funds .
the shares represented 49 percent of the plan ' s assets in
1998 . the proportion hit bottom at 46 percent in 1999 , when the
assets more than doubled - - exceeding the 56 percent increase in
enron ' s share price that year - - to $ 1 . 62 billion .
how much choice ?
then came last year , when the common shares recorded their
best performance in more than two decades even as u . s . stocks
stumbled . enron rallied 87 percent amid soaring electricity and
natural gas prices , while the standard credit ratings lowered ( update 8 )
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 46 ( new york )
dynegy ends enron takeover ; credit ratings lowered ( update 8 )
( updates to add watson comment . )
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - dynegy inc . abandoned a
takeover for enron corp . , leaving the country ' s largest energy
trader facing bankruptcy .
enron shares plunged 85 percent to below $ 1 on concern the
company can ' t repay its $ 15 billion in debt . dynegy withdrew after
bankers failed to raise $ 1 . 5 billion enron needed to operate until
the acquisition was completed . credit rating companies lowered
enron ' s rating to junk .
` ` the reality is enron ' s going bankrupt , ' ' said michael
willingham , a risk manager at itochu international inc . , a unit of
a japanese trading firm . ` ` enron touted themselves as the king of
risk management , but it doesn ' t look like they ' ve managed their
risk very well . ' '
enron ' s sudden collapse - - $ 26 billion of market value
evaporated in seven weeks - - deals a blow to alliance capital
management holdings llp and other big mutual funds , wall street
lenders , such as j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup inc . , and
the 21 , 000 employees , many of whom were relying on shares of the
houston - based company for their retirement .
bankers led by j . p . morgan chase vice chairman james b . lee
tried for two weeks to raise the cash enron needed . investors
including saudi prince alwaleed bin talal , the blackstone group lp
and the carlyle group inc . turned them down because of concern
enron would default . that concern was heightened after enron
disclosed it had a $ 690 million payment due this week .
enron shares declined $ 3 . 50 to 61 cents in trading of more
than 342 million shares , the most traded ever for a u . s . stock .
the company ' s 6 . 4 percent bonds , which mature in 2006 , were quoted
as low as 20 cents on the dollar , down from 53 yesterday . at that
price the bonds yield 57 percent .
termination
dynegy said it abandoned the takeover ` ` due to breaches by
enron of representations , warrants , and covenants . ' ' chief
executive officer chuck watson said dynegy invoked its right to
purchase enron ' s northern natural gas pipeline . dynegy received
the right to do so in exchange for an investment of $ 1 . 5 billion
in enron by chevrontexaco corp . , which owns one quarter of dynegy .
the unit operates 16 , 500 miles of natural gas pipeline .
` ` sometimes the best deals are the ones you do not do , ' ' said
watson , who two weeks earlier had sealed the acquisition over
coffee and muffins in the kitchen of enron ceo ken lay ' s houston
home . ` ` we felt we had no choice but to act to protect our
shareholders ' interest , ' ' watson said .
as the news of dynegy ' s rejection flashed across computer
screens on enron ' s trading floor in houston , some employees
started to abandon their desks and leave the office , an enron
trader said . several workers said they expect the company to begin
firing workers tomorrow to prepare for bankruptcy .
` ` we will work to retain the employees necessary to the
continuing operations of our trading and other core energy
businesses , ' ' said lay in a statement . lay was a big backer of
george w . bush ' s campaign for presidency and said he had held
discussions about a job in administration at one point .
enron said in a statement it would halt all payments other
than those required to continue trading operations and would
review dynegy ' s ` ` assertion ' ' that it is entitled to the pipeline
unit .
pipeline company
from its start as natural gas pipeline company in the 1930 s ,
enron was transformed by then ceo jeffrey skilling into the
largest competitor in the business of trading energy , mainly
natural gas and electric power . under skilling , the company also
sought to expand into internet trading for products ranging from
metals to weather derivatives . skilling resigned in august .
enron shares tripled in the two years ended december 2000 ,
peaking at a market value of more than $ 70 billion , as the company
snared $ 16 . 1 billion in long - term energy management contracts from
companies such as international business machines corp . and
starwood hotels & resorts worldwide inc . in the first quarter of
2001 , enron ' s profit from operations rose 20 percent to $ 406
million and revenue quadrupled to $ 50 billion .
enron began to unravel in october after it said shareholders
equity was reduced by $ 1 . 2 billion because it used stock to pay
off debt of a partnership run by then chief financial officer
andrew fastow . the announcement led to lawsuits and a probe by the
securities and exchange commission . the writedown also raised
questions about how enron accounted for debt and losses of similar
affiliated partnerships . on nov . 8 , it restated earnings back to
1997 , lowering them by $ 580 million .
as its shares plunged , enron faced a cash crunch because
lenders and some trading partners lost confidence the company
would have the cash to pay bills . citigroup and j . p . morgan chase
offered to pony up $ 250 million each out $ 2 billion the company
sought . trading partners such as mirant corp . were less
forgiving , demanding more collateral or restricting trading .
enrononline , enron corp . ' s online trading system , stopped
allowing trades and quit posting bids and offers for natural gas
this morning , say traders who use the web site . enron said
yesterday that enrononline handled about 60 percent of its trading
business , or about $ 2 . 8 billion a day .
` ` we can log in , but there is nothing there , nothing to buy
and nothing to sell , ' ' said juha laiho , an energy trader at
finland - based fortum oyj in houston . ` ` it went down some time this
morning . ' '
lower credit ratings
s & p cut its rating on enron to ` ` b - ' ' from ` ` bbb - ' ' and
moody ' s lowered its rating to ` ` b 2 ' ' from ` ` baa 3 . ' ' both ratings
are below investment grade . the downgrade is significant because
the reduction to junk may require enron to repay $ 3 . 9 billion .
andre meade , an analyst at commerzbank securities , said that
enron ' s junk credit rating would ` ` effectively shut down the bulk
of their trading and marketing operations . ' '
` ` it ' s not likely enron will be able to raise the capital to
settle those payments and continue its business , ' ' said meade .
the large debts make it unlikely that investors will receive
much should the company file for bankruptcy , said investors .
` ` this will be a traditional bankruptcy in which equity
holders get nothing , ' ' said edward paik , who has 1 . 6 million enron
shares among $ 7 billion in assets he helps manage for liberty
funds group . ` ` this company doesn ' t have the safety net in terms
of assets that other companies do . ' '
enron ' s ratings cut to junk by s & p , moody ' s , fitch ( update 6 )
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 51 ( new york )
enron ' s ratings cut to junk by s & p , moody ' s , fitch ( update 6 )
( adds bond prices in 14 th paragraph . )
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - standard & poor ' s , moody ' s
investors service and fitch inc . slashed enron corp . ' s credit
rating to junk status today , raising the prospect of chapter 11
bankruptcy as rival energy trader dynegy inc . rescinded its buyout
bid for the company .
the company is struggling with a cash crunch as at least $ 3 . 9
billion in debt comes due immediately because of the rating cut ,
and is suspending its online trading unit and some ` ` non - core ' '
payments . enron ' s trading business is also faltering as trading
partners lose faith in the company ' s ability to meet its
obligations .
` ` this is a disaster , ' ' said jon kyle cartwright , a debt
analyst at raymond james & associates . ` ` it is difficult , if not
impossible , for anyone to do trades with enron ' s trading
operations in light of junk ratings across the board and dynegy
walking away from the deal . ' '
s & p cut enron ' s long - term credit rating this morning six
levels to ` ` b - ' ' from ` ` bbb - ' ' and withdrew its ` ` a ' ' short - term
grade .
s & p analyst todd shipman , the author of the rating report ,
said the rating could be lowered if enron ' s cash situation isn ' t
resolved , and that a move to a chapter 11 bankruptcy filing and
the lowest ` ` d ' ' rating were both possibilities .
` ` we saw the deterioration in the trading operations , and
that threw the merger in doubt , ' ' he said . he said s & p may change
the rating soon .
following suit
moody ' s followed s & p with a five - level cut in enron ' s credit
rating to ` ` b 2 ' ' from ` ` baa 3 . ' ' moody ' s affirmed its ` ` not - prime ' '
rating on enron ' s commercial paper .
fitch lowered enron ' s senior unsecured rating 10 levels , to
` ` cc ' ' from ` ` bbb - , ' ' and its short - term rating to its second -
lowest ` ` c ' ' from ` ` f 3 . ' ' fitch said in its report that a
` ` default of some kind appears probable . ' '
egan - jones ratings co . cut enron ' s credit rating to junk on
oct . 26 , when it lowered it one level to ` ` bb + ' ' from ` ` bbb - . ' '
the rating company downgraded the credit several times since then ,
and cut it to ` ` c ' ' today .
s & p , moody ' s and fitch all had enron ' s credit rating three
levels above junk in january , while egan - jones rated it four
levels higher .
the companies cut the ratings several times since october ,
amid news that enron ' s dealings with partnerships run by former
chief financial officer andy fastow contributed to trading losses .
enron reported $ 1 . 01 billion in third - quarter losses from failed
investments .
pressure
the acquisition by dynegy promised to alleviate the ensuing
cash crunch . enron ' s stock fell by more than 50 percent since nov .
19 amid growing skepticism that the dynegy would complete the
acquisition .
` ` we became a lot more concerned when the stock didn ' t
stabilize , ' ' said john diaz , moody ' s managing director for energy
and one of the authors of the downgrade report . ` ` the drop in the
stock price put pressure on dynegy to renegotiate the deal . ' '
enron has $ 15 . 5 billion of debt outstanding , according to
bloomberg data . its shares , which have fallen 99 percent this
year , lost $ 3 . 50 today to 61 cents . the company ' s bonds dropped by
about half to 26 cents on the dollar from 53 cents .
s & p ' s shipman said in his report that ` ` the willingness of
dynegy to complete its planned acquisition of enron has been
compromised by the continued drop in confidence in the capital
markets that the transaction would hold . ' '
credit analysts also focused on enron ' s cash flow levels ,
diaz said . enron said in its most recent filing last week that it
had $ 1 billion in cash , which was a lot less than the market had
expected , diaz said .
` ` it came as a surprise to us and to others , ' ' he said . ` ` we
expected at least $ 2 . 5 billion so they would have staying power . ' '
creditsights ' reynolds comments on downgrade of enron to junk
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 52 ( new york )
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - glenn reynolds , an analyst
at fixed - income research firm creditsights inc . , comments on the
slide in enron corp . ' s debt ratings to junk levels :
` ` the likely bankruptcy will generate material losses for a
number of banks , wall street firms and institutional investors - -
including a number who did not face the daily pressures of marking
their book to market , ' ' reynolds said .
` ` some counterparty credit defaults will also have some
follow - on effects in the commodity markets , foreign exchange and
on swap desks . many of these counterparties could delay or manage
their loss recognition , but this one is now one you cannot hide
from . the most interesting issue will be to see the fallout in the
default swap market if - - more likely when - - that brutal step is
taken and they file chapter 11 . ' '
spaeth communications president comments on enron corp . outlook
2001 - 11 - 28 16 : 53 ( new york )
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - merrie spaeth , president of
spaeth communications , comments on enron corp . ' s options after the
company ' s credit ratings were cut to junk status and dynegy inc .
abandoned a takeover bid for the company . dallas - based spaeth is a
communications consultant to dynegy .
` ` a chapter 11 reorganization would be the only way that
enron could resolve the lawsuits it faces and the other issues
surrounding the partnerships .
` ` chapter 11 carries a whole set of risks on its own , but it
gives the company a chance to manage perceptions . it puts a
premium on communication , quick , concise and targeted
communication - - the antithesis of what enron has developed in its
culture .
` ` the benefit of a chapter 11 is that it gives you the
opportunity to revamp how you do business . ' '
houston astros president says enron ' s name will stay on stadium
2001 - 11 - 28 17 : 03 ( new york )
houston , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . , left at the
brink of bankruptcy after losing potential buyer dynegy inc . and
having its credit rating cut to junk , has a friend in the houston
astros .
team president tal smith said the club isn ' t abandoning the
company , which is paying $ 3 . 3 million annually for 30 years to
have its name on the astros ' home ballpark , enron field .
` ` we identify with enron , and they identify with us , ' ' smith
said . ` ` there ' s no negative association because of their
difficulties . ' '
enron , the u . s . ' s biggest energy trader , entered into the
agreement with the major league baseball team just before the new
stadium opened for the 2000 season . the company ' s shares were on
the way to tripling their value from 1998 , and the astros had just
won their third straight national league central division title .
since then , the company ' s fortunes have plummeted . the
company has $ 15 billion in debt and not enough cash to pay it .
dynegy abandoned its plan to buy its houston neighbor for at least
$ 23 billion in stock and assumed debt today .
enron also has a contract to supply and manage energy for the
baseball stadium for the next 30 years , said dean bonham , a denver -
based consultant who analyzes and sells naming rights agreements .
` ` this is more than a naming rights deal , ' ' bonham said .
` ` they ' re going to eventually have to find another company to
supply that service as well as put their name on the ballpark . ' '
meantime , the name of the astros ' home won ' t change , smith
said . ` ` until there ' s no longer a company , it ' ll still be enron
field , ' ' he said .
california power authority ' s freeman comments on enron , dynegy
2001 - 11 - 28 17 : 03 ( new york )
sacramento , california , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - the following
are comments by california power authority chairman s . david
freeman on dynegy inc . ' s decision to abandon its purchase of enron
corp . and the possibility of enron filing for chapter 11
bankruptcy protection .
` ` i don ' t think that trading of energy in the spot market is
going to be materially affected by this . there are a lot of other
people who will take up the slack . ' '
` ` i see this as an indication that a very volatile market can
kill the consumer , but it can also kill one of the companies . ' '
` ` it ' s a fascinating footnote that a year ago it was the
state of california that appeared to be on the verge of
bankruptcy , at least some of the utilities were . and now the shoe
has kind of dropped on the other foot . ' '
` ` i take no pleasure in this at all . i don ' t view this as a
happy or good thing , but when you live by the sword , sometimes you
die by the sword . ' '
enron corp . has busiest day ever for a u . s . stock : table
2001 - 11 - 28 17 : 19 ( new york )
enron corp . has busiest day ever for a u . s . stock : table
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . had the most -
active day for a u . s . stock , with 343 million shares trading ,
according to preliminary figures from the new york stock exchange .
enron plunged $ 3 . 50 , or 85 percent , to 61 cents a share after
dynegy inc . abandoned a takeover bid for enron , leaving the
largest energy trader without enough cash to pay its $ 15 billion
in debt .
standard & poor ' s corp . cut enron ' s credit rating to junk as
bankers failed to raise $ 1 . 5 billion enron needed to operate until
the sale was completed .
the following is a list of stocks with the 10 highest one - day
trading volumes in u . s . market history , according to data from the
nyse and the nasdaq stock market .
* t
stock date volume ( in millions )
enron corp . nov . 28 , 2001 343 . 2
intel corp . sept . 22 , 2000 308 . 7
cisco systems inc . feb . 7 , 2001 281 . 6
oracle corp . march 2 , 2001 224 . 0
cisco systems jan . 10 , 2001 213 . 0
jds uniphase corp . july 26 , 2000 200 . 4
cisco systems oct . 3 , 2001 196 . 5
worldcom inc . nov . 1 , 2000 195 . 5
exodus communications sept . 25 , 2001 193 . 1
exodus communications june 21 , 2001 186 . 4
* t
enron appoints troubh to board to lead litigation committee
2001 - 11 - 28 17 : 28 ( new york )
enron appoints troubh to board to lead litigation committee
houston , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . , whose shares
dropped 85 percent today after dynegy inc . walked away from its
takeover bid , appointed financial consultant raymond s . troubh to
the board and to lead a new litigation committee .
enron , the top energy trader whose shares have fallen 99
percent this year , said the committee will evaluate claims from
shareholder and other lawsuits filed against the company since
the u . s . securities and exchange commission began investigating
the company ' s finances .
enron board member william c . powers jr . , dean of the
university of texas school of law , who was appointed last month ,
will also serve on the litigation committee .
troubh serves on the boards of starwood hotels & resorts ,
healthnet inc . diamond offshore drilling , triarc cos . and gentiva
health services inc . , among others . he holds degrees from bowdoin
college and yale law school and is a former general partner at
investment bank lazard freres & co .
shares of houston - based enron fell $ 3 . 50 to 61 cents .
enron ' s problems may spark demand for treasuries , analysts say
2001 - 11 - 28 17 : 36 ( new york )
new york , nov . 28 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . ' s fall to junk
credit ratings may benefit treasury securities as traders and
investors worry about what firms have exposure to the houston ,
texas - based energy trader .
gains would add to u . s . government debt that has returned
more than 6 percent this year . it benefited from falling stocks
and disappointing corporate earnings as well as from the federal
reserve ' s 4 . 5 percentage points of rate cuts aimed at reviving an
economy that has been in recession since march .
dynegy inc . , which had agreed to purchase enron , terminated
that agreement following the downgrade .
` ` anything with a negative connotation like this , investors
get spooked and the first thing they think of is to jump into
something safe like treasuries , ' ' said brian cothran , who helps
manage $ 15 billion in fixed income at fifth third bank in
cincinnati . he said he plans to hold on to the enron bonds in his
portfolio .
treasuries jumped following standard & poor ' s downgrade of
enron corp . as investors sought the relative safety of debt backed
by the u . s . the most - widely traded 10 - year note rose to 101 6 / 32
from 100 25 / 32 in the 10 minutes after the announcement .
the downgrades of enron by s & p and moody ' s investors service
to junk bond status raised concern about credit ratings of firms
that have exposure to the energy trader , especially if it files
for bankruptcy protection . the downgrades also triggered enron ' s
need to repay about $ 3 . 9 billion in notes sold by two trusts - -
marlin water trust and osprey trust .
enron has more than $ 15 billion in debt and preferred stock
and about $ 4 billion in bank loans , of which $ 3 billion is
unsecured . swaps , options , and derivative risk aren ' t included in
those figures . banks and wall street dealers hold unsecured enron
loans and some sold credit default swaps , which provide insurance
to debt holders in case enron defaults .
interest rate futures
eurodollar futures , indications of three - month interest
rates , which are used to hedge risk , rose ` ` after the announcement
that s & p downgraded enron to junk on a flight to quality bid as
traders tried to figure out just how big a calamity this may be , ' '
said scott gelling , an assistant vice president at carr futures
inc . in chicago .
` ` on a scale of one to 10 , with long - term capital management
being a 10 , they are wondering where this will fall . ' '
swap spreads , a gauge of investors ' willingness to buy
riskier assets , rose for the 