Subject: enron mentions
don ' t bet it all on your employer ; the plunge of enron stock serves as a warning that workers should not invest too much in their company
time magazine , 12 / 03 / 01
pick one stock ; our annual love only one stock - picking contest .
forbes magazine , 12 / 10 / 01
the informer
forbes magazine , 12 / 10 / 01
can shoppers save the economy ? ; four - star defense ; an anthrax enigma ; smokeout ; gore , capitalist ; falling star ; forward spin
u . s . news & world report , 12 / 03 / 01
enron , dynegy work to salvage merger deal
the wall street journal , 11 / 28 / 01
deals & deal makers : banks , too , have stake in enron merger - - - stature , money are both on the line
the wall street journal , 11 / 28 / 01
energy - trading market survives enron for now
the wall street journal , 11 / 28 / 01
business world : enron is history , says history
the wall street journal , 11 / 28 / 01
trying to restore confidence in enron to salvage a merger
the new york times , 11 / 28 / 01
enron , dynegy pursue the right price
houston chronicle , 11 / 28 / 01
cooperation from enron key in probe
houston chronicle , 11 / 28 / 01
dynegy completes $ 600 mln purchase of u . k . gas storage assets
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
natural gas , electricity trading appears resilient , wsj reports
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
j . p . morgan , citigroup have stakes in enron purchase , wsj says
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron ' s 401 ( k ) savings plan was set up for a fall : david wilson
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
enron receives proposal for $ 1 billion investment , ft says
bloomberg , 11 / 28 / 01
global investing - enron faces lawsuits over handling of pension plan energy trader ' s employees allege . . .
financial times , 11 / 28 / 01
companies energy trader ' s stock stabilizes . rating agencies show restraint .
los angeles times , 11 / 28 / 01
ratings agencies agree to hold off on ratings move on enron for now - wsj
afx news , 11 / 28 / 01
dynegy completes bg storage ltd buy
dow jones news service , 11 / 28 / 01
dynegy completes acquisition of uk natural gas storage assets
business wire , 11 / 28 / 01
india : india ' s ongc says rejects bg offer on fields .
reuters english news service , 11 / 28 / 01
australia : pacific hydro to select wind turbine maker .
reuters english news service , 11 / 28 / 01
dynegy confirms it ' s renegotiating enron deal
the daily deal , 11 / 28 / 01
dynegy confirms move to renegotiate enron takeover
chicago tribune , 11 / 28 / 01
usa : update 6 - enron , dynegy hammer away at new merger deal .
reuters english news service , 11 / 27 / 01
new negotiations for dynegy purchase of enron sends shares higher
associated press newswires , 11 / 27 / 01
usa : enron woes bite into its energy trading .
reuters english news service , 11 / 27 / 01
enron / dynergy renogotiate mergercnnfn
cnnfn : markets impact , 11 / 27 / 01
enron board agrees to lower dynegy purchase price , paper says
bloomberg , 11 / 27 / 01
enron finding it harder to trade , competitors say ( update 2 )
bloomberg , 11 / 27 / 01
personal time / your money
don ' t bet it all on your employer ; the plunge of enron stock serves as a warning that workers should not invest too much in their company
sharon epperson
12 / 03 / 2001
time magazine
time inc .
79
( copyright 2001 )
steve lacey , 45 , an emergency - repair dispatcher for a utility company in salem , ore . , has a personal life that reads like a holiday greeting card . he recently married his longtime love , and after packing boxes over thanksgiving weekend , they are set to move into their dream house in the country , just in time for christmas . lacey ' s retirement plans , however , are in ruins . he works for the embattled energy - trading firm enron , and has all his 401 ( k ) savings in enron stock , which plunged from $ 90 a share in late 2000 to $ 4 . 71 at the end of last week .
much of that decline has come since october when enron reported it had lost $ 638 million in the third quarter and later admitted it had overstated earnings from 1997 to 2000 . as their life savings shriveled , all lacey and his co - workers could do was watch . from oct . 17 to mid - november , enron blocked its employees from shifting investments in their 401 ( k ) accounts , while it switched to a new plan administrator .
lacey has joined a federal lawsuit that accuses enron of breaching its fiduciary duty to employees by encouraging them to invest in enron stock even after executives became aware of serious financial problems that would hurt the stock price . " there was a lot of promotion inside the company to invest in enron and help us grow , so everybody got into it , " lacey told time ' s cathy booth thomas . enron says it doesn ' t comment on pending lawsuits .
lacey and his colleagues could not have anticipated that they would be stuck with a plummeting stock . but their woes should be seen as a warning not to hold too much of your employer ' s stock in your 401 ( k ) and to regularly monitor the diversification of your investments .
like enron ' s , many firms ' 401 ( k ) plans can have blackout periods lasting from a few days to a few weeks when they change plan administrators . " that ' s not necessarily wrong or illegal , " says alden bianchi , chairman of the employee - benefits group at the mirick o ' connell law firm in westborough , mass . employees need to make sure their 401 ( k ) investments are diversified at all times - - in case they can ' t shift them for a while .
like enron , many other big firms match employee contributions with company stock . your allocation to that one investment can grow very quickly . and you might not be allowed to reallocate those matching funds into other investments until age 50 to 55 . at the end of last year , a whopping 39 % of total assets in profit sharing and 401 ( k ) plans were invested in the stock of the sponsoring company . among employees who are allowed to hold their employer ' s stock in their 401 ( k ) account , 18 % invested half or more of their savings in that stock .
financial planners will tell you it ' s a mistake to bet so much on a single stock - - especially that of the company you work for , whose fortunes already affect your job security and career advancement . planners often advise investors to hold as little of their employer ' s stock as they can - - say , only the amount the company gives them as a matching contribution . then they should shift assets out of even that matching stock into a mix of diversified stock - and - bond mutual funds as soon as they are old enough to do so . similarly , if your employer gives you options to buy company stock , don ' t buy and hold the stock ; cash it in and invest the proceeds in a diverse blend of stocks and bonds or mutual funds .
remember that it ' s your responsibility to arrange your investments so that they can survive any financial trouble your employer might suffer . as financial planner clare wherley of new providence , n . j . , says , " it ' s not the company ' s responsibility to make sure your investments go up . "
sharon epperson is a correspondent for cnbc business news . e - mail her at sharon . epperson @ nbc . com
diversify your 401 ( k ) assets
steve lacey invested 100 % of his savings plan in his employer ' s stock . experts say even the average worker , who holds 39 % of his 401 ( k ) assets in company stock , is poorly diversified
average allocation of assets in employee profit - sharing and 401 ( k ) plans
company ' s stock 39 . 2 % stock funds 35 . 4 % bond funds 5 . 9 % cash / money market 3 . 4 % other 16 . 1 %
source : profit sharing / 401 ( k ) council of america
color photo : susan seubert for time color chart
copyright ? 2000 dow jones our annual love only one stock - picking contest .
andrew t . gillies and megan e . mulligan
12 / 10 / 2001
forbes magazine
176
copyright 2001 forbes inc .
bearish wall streeters again dominate our annual love only one stock - picking contest . 2002 may not be so easy .
our year - end love only one contest invites analysts and money managers to stick their necks out by choosing one stock to buy or to sell short . those who beat the market over the next 12 months get return invites .
our 12 bulls , with an 18 % average decline , fared somewhat better than the s & p 500 , which fell 20 % from nov . 13 , 2000 to nov . 1 , 2001 . not much to write home about . but it was a great year to finger rotten stocks . our five bears ' picks fell an average 56 % . four bears qualified to reenter , and three chose to do so .
profund advisors ' william seale hit the bull ' s - eye by selecting transmeta as a stinker . in the past year the stock has fallen 95 % . he ' s back this year with a rap on carnival corp . already , one big cruise line , american classic voyages , has declared bankruptcy . now carnival , despite being stronger than most cruise operators , will suffer as the heavy burden of overhead is spread among fewer vacationers , he says . at a recent $ 23 carnival is trading at 16 times estimated 2002 earnings per share and is eminently shortable .
stephen n . worthington of barbary coast capital management foresaw trouble with the burn rate and debt load at wireless service provider metricom , trading a year ago at $ 15 . 75 . nice call . in july 2001 the company filed for chapter 11 protection .
this year worthington sees trouble brewing on the balance sheet of pacificare health systems . he cites an impending writeoff of the hmo ' s intangibles ( mostly goodwill ) , now 42 % of assets .
martin weiner of comstock partners correctly anticipated that a sagging market would dent enthusiasm for stock trading , as he picked broker charles schwab , which fell 57 % . for 2002 , weiner estimates a 20 % drop in capital spending for the semiconductor industry . so he says you should short applied materials , the big supplier of chipmaking equipment .
two new bears sign on for the year ahead : timothy ghriskey of ghriskey capital partners and cengiz searfoss , portfolio manager at west broadway partners . ghriskey sees a slide in nestle , as investors lose their appetite for food stocks in an eventual market rebound . searfoss targets eastman kodak for the stiff competition it confronts in a low - margin business .
now for the bulls . jean - marie eveillard , manager of the first eagle sogen global fund , gained 21 % with timber producer rayonier . for next year eveillard still likes timber , as well as real estate and gold stocks . his choice for our contest is security capital , a holding company for a number of real estate investment trusts and private real estate entities .
morgan stanley chief investment strategist byron wien rode retailer target to a 23 % increase . now he likes oracle , arguing that it will outlast its competitors and that its share price already reflects the technology spending downturn .
thrya zerhusen , manager of the abn amro / talon mid cap fund , beat the market last year with a 9 % gain on american power conversion , the manufacturer of backup power supplies . now she opts for unisys shares , at just 0 . 5 times sales and 9 times her 2002 earnings estimate .
six new bulls join the contest . subodh kumar , chief investment strategist at cibc world markets , picks intel on the theory that chip companies lead technology rallies . michael mauboussin , chief u . s . investment strategist with credit suisse first boston , goes for enron , suggesting that the acquisition by dynegy will take place on current terms . enron shares are trading at a 19 % discount to their dynegy value .
anna dopkin , manager of the t . rowe price financial services fund , considers troubled insurer safeco a promising turnaround . wendy trevisani , associate portfolio manager with thornburg investment management , says e - trade will succeed with its diversification from pure trading into banking and lending products .
kurt von emster , portfolio manager of mpm bioequities fund , bets on regeneron pharmaceuticals : " this biotech has a prolific pipeline , a hoard of cash and fantastic science . " sandi gleason , a portfolio manager with kayne anderson rudnick , recommends syncor international on the strong projected growth of its business .
to track current quotes on these stocks , go to www . forbes . com / love .
the long and short of it
eight newcomers , plus nine reigning winners from last year ' s contest ,
enter our annual love only one scrum .
name / affiliation
stock price
buzz
richard e . cripps / legg mason
computer sciences $ 33 . 94
higher government tech spending
anna dopkin / t . rowe price
safeco 31 . 28
new management
david elias / elias asset mgmt
j . p . morgan chase 36 . 34
cheap at 11 times 2002 estimated eps
kurt von emster / mpm capital
regeneron 22 . 09
obesity drug in phase - 3 trials
jean - marie eveillard / first eagle sogen funds
security capital 18 . 67
market shift into real estate
grace keeney fey / frontier capital mgmt
general mills 47 . 00
predictable & sustainable profits
sandi gleason / kayne anderson rudnick
syncor international 29 . 59
recession - proof growth
subodh kumar / cibc world markets
intel 25 . 94
new products dynegy deal
wendy trevisani / thornburg investment mgmt
e - trade 6 . 79
growing bank & mortgage business
byron r . wien / morgan stanley dean witter
oracle 14 . 17
long - term winner in tech
thyra zerhusen / abn amro funds
unisys 9 . 35
services account for 70 % of sales
short - sellers
timothy ghriskey / ghriskey capital partners
nestle s . a . 53 . 02
p / e well above 9 - year average
william seale / profund advisors
carnival 22 . 65
decline in travel & high overhead
cengiz searfoss / west broadway partners
eastman kodak 26 . 80
heavy debt & digital competition
martin weiner / comstock funds
applied materials 36 . 99
reduced spending in chip industry
stephen worthington / barbary coast capital mgmt
pacificare health system 18 . 26
razor - thin margins , dying business
2001 roundup
collectively , our bulls barely outperformed the market ' s 20 % decline
over the course of the contest . the bears had more fun - on average
their picks tumbled 56 % .
name / affiliation
ticker stock change *
michelle r . clayman / new amsterdam partners
bbox black box - 20 %
richard e . cripps / legg mason
t at & t - 5
gail dudack / independent strategist
cphd cepheid - 25
david elias / elias asset mgmt
hd home depot 3
jean - marie eveillard / first eagle sogen funds
ryn rayonier 21
john r . hickman / juricka & voyles
dswt duraswitch - 30
mark c . jordan / ag edwards
cdo comdisco - 96
grace keeney fey / frontier capital mgmt
tmo thermo electron - 18
ron h . muhlenkamp / muhlenkamp funds
sfp salton - 51
byron r . wien / morgan stanley dean witter
tgt target 23
martin whitman / third avenue value funds
avx avx - 29
thyra zerhusen / abn amro funds
apcc amer power conv 9
short - sellers
lou a . cardinali / fiero brothers
kkd krispy kreme 57
mark coffelt / first austin
jnpr juniper networks - 87
william seale / profund advisors
tmta transmeta - 95
martin weiner / comstock funds
sch charles schwab - 57
stephen worthington / barbary coast
mcom metricom - 99
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
departments
the informer
janet novack , justin doebele , william p . barrett , lynn cook , benjamin fulford , daniel fisher
12 / 10 / 2001
forbes magazine
54
copyright 2001 forbes inc .
almost makes boesky a saint
the u . s . tax court says chicago - based fmc corp . can ' t take a $ 218 million tax deduction for theft losses blamed on the big mid - 1980 s insider trading scandal involving infamous arbitrager ivan f . boesky . the court held that fmc ' s complaint - - boesky ' s dealings caused it to pay that much more to buy back its own stock - - was erased when it lost a nontax case making the same claim against an investment firm whose employee had leaked then - forbes 400 member boesky the information . fmc , the court said , was asserting the " remarkable proposition " that its own shareholders had received too much . - - janet novack
watch what we do , not what we say
goldman sachs group is preparing to sell shares of a real estate investment trust it created consisting of commercial property in japan . a big pitch : rental yields are juicy compared with other investments available to domestic investors . yet sources say goldman itself is holding back on signing a lease for new digs in tokyo , expecting rents to drop in coming months , which could happen . an ongoing building boom is expected to add a glut - inducing 25 % to downtown tokyo prime office space by 2004 . no comment from the venerable goldman . - - justin doebele
regulators get hang of law
after criticism on this page and elsewhere , nasd regulation , the brokerage - owned regulatory agency , is finally moving to make it harder for errant stockbrokers to hide their sins from investors . under proposed rules , brokers who settle ( i . e . , pay money to end ) a client ' s arbitration claim before a hearing would generally no longer be able to keep the matter out of an nasdr database accessible to the public . also , nasdr would drop its legally absurd position that it had to honor expungement orders won by brokers in state courts even if it wasn ' t a party . - - william p . barrett
a buying opportunity , y ' all ?
energy - company mergers - - enron - dynegy and chevron - texaco - - likely will help swell the office vacancy rate under houston ' s glittering skyline from a tight 2 % to a not - so - tight 15 % . also heading south : prime space rent , already cheap by major - city standards at $ 27 per square foot per year . big landlord losers : canadian real estate investment trust trizechahn and fort worth ' s crescent real estate equities . - - lynn cook
soap opera
in japan , sanyo , the big appliance maker , has just rolled out a washing machine the company claims needs no detergent at all . soapmakers are foaming at the mouth as they try to disprove the new contraption ' s effectiveness . amid the claims and counterclaims , machine sales appear brisk . - - benjamin fulford
if your company wants to put its name on a stadium , think about selling
with the sudden collapse of its stock , enron becomes the latest public
company to join the growing list of big firms whose share price
underperformed the market after buying the naming rights to a
professional sports arena . - - daniel fisher
venue / city
yearnamed performancevs . s & p 500 *
3 com park / san francisco
1995 - 186 %
pro player field * * / miami
1996 - 171
psinet stadium / baltimore
1999 - 111
compaq center / houston
1998 - 95
cmgi field / foxborough , mass .
2000 - 69
bank one ballpark / phoenix
1996 - 65
cinergy field / cincinnati
1996 - 63
coors field / denver
1991 - 52
enron field / houston
1999 - 52
network associates coliseum / oakland
1998 - 48
adelphia coliseum / nashville
1999 - 47
safeco field / seattle
1998 - 35
copyright ? 2000 dow jones four - star defense ; an anthrax enigma ; smokeout ; gore , capitalist ; falling star ; forward spin
lisa stein
12 / 03 / 2001
u . s . news & world report
10
c copyright 2001 u . s . news ditto , the american civil liberties union .
gore , capitalist
taking care of business
just days after a consortium of newspapers decided al gore might have won the florida recount and become president if only he had insisted that the overvotes be counted as well as the undervotes - - you remember overvotes and undervotes , don ' t you ? - - gore announced he was forsaking politics for money , at least for now . gore will become vice chairman of metropolitan west financial inc . , a financial services company in los angeles . avoiding the big question - - will he keep the beard ? - - the former veep said : " for more than 25 years , i have worked on business and economic issues from the perspective of a public servant engaged in public policy . i am eager to learn more about business as an active executive of this dynamic and community - oriented company . "
while some of gore ' s former aides had hoped their ex - boss would join a think tank pending another run for the presidency in 2004 , they now insist that a private - sector job doesn ' t take him out of the race .
falling star
the art of the deal
early this year , enron executives groused that wall street didn ' t appreciate their innovative business model , arguing that the company was severely undervalued at $ 80 per share . if only investors showed that kind of disrespect for enron today . the beleaguered houston energy trader ' s stock price tumbled to as low as $ 4 last week , threatening a merger deal with dynegy that is seen as enron ' s best survival hope . the latest free fall came after enron disclosed the severity of its credit crunch to regulators .
both dynegy and enron insist the deal ' s still on , and enron ' s shares recovered slightly after its lead lender gave it more time to pay off a $ 690 million loan . still , it could take six to nine months to finalize the deal .
forward spin
helping hands congress returns from thanksgiving recess to work that will involve a lot of giving and no small measure of thanks . the defense appropriations bill will get early and generous attention , followed by an economic stimulus bill that will be greeted with hands extended , asking that time - honored question : where ' s mine ?
next stop ? the last day in november is the deadline for ending sanctions against iraq . that seems highly unlikely given the uncertainty over any role baghdad might have played in propping up osama bin laden or even in supporting terrorist attacks .
fail - safe after dismal academic performance and a projected $ 1 . 2 billion deficit , philadelphia ' s school district will now be under the watchful eye of not only pennsylvania gov . mark schweiker but also edison schools inc . schweiker backed off a proposal to allow edison to take over school management . instead , the private company will serve as consultants and help in recruiting new managers for the troubled school district .
picture : can shoppers save the economy ? ( will lester - - inland valley daily bulletin / ap ) ; picture : reflected glory . president bush lauded robert f . kennedy last week as the justice department renamed its main building to honor the former attorney general and liberal icon . ( jim lo scalzo for usn picture : ottilie lundgren ( immanuel lutheran church / ap ) ; picture : gov . mark schweiker ( dan loh - - ap )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
enron , dynegy work to salvage merger deal
by rebecca smith and gregory zuckerman
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 28 / 2001
the wall street journal
a 3
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
top executives of enron corp . and dynegy inc . raced to salvage a deal to combine the two energy - trading companies amid growing signs that enron is facing cash - flow problems as a result of a sharp downturn in its core trading business .
the executives ' task gained urgency amid worries that enron ' s debt may soon be downgraded to junk status by leading credit - rating agencies . after holding talks with executives of enron and dynegy , representatives of moody ' s investors service inc . , standard & poor ' s ratings group and fitch inc . agreed to hold off on making any ratings move yesterday , people familiar with the discussions said . j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup inc . ' s citibank , which are shepherding the merger and have already loaned $ 1 billion and agreed to invest an additional $ 500 million in the merged company , may arrange still more funding for enron , these people said .
" i hope they err on the conservative side and stockpile cash , " said ralph pellecchia , analyst for fitch , the credit - rating agency .
with few viable options remaining , enron ' s board late yesterday informally agreed to a new share - exchange ratio of 0 . 12 shares of dynegy for each enron share tendered , down more than 50 % from the original offer of 0 . 2685 dynegy share for each enron share , according to one person familiar with the situation . but the talks were still fluid as of late yesterday .
the latest proposed share - exchange ratio values enron at $ 4 . 91 a share , or a total of $ 4 . 17 billion . this would compare with the original value of $ 10 . 98 a share , or $ 9 . 33 billion . in exchange for reducing the purchase price , some members of the enron team were insisting on more control over the merged company . dynegy also was considering an additional $ 250 million cash investment in enron . dynegy , together with chevrontexaco inc . , has already injected $ 1 . 5 billion into enron in an effort to stabilize the company .
talks between enron and dynegy were said to be tense and occasionally acrimonious .
at 4 p . m . , enron shares were up 10 cents to $ 4 . 11 , while dynegy shares were up $ 1 . 64 to $ 40 . 89 , in new york stock exchange composite trading .
talks between enron and dynegy began in earnest over the weekend to cut the price of the all - stock transaction after enron ' s share price had plummeted in the wake of disclosures that its future earnings wouldn ' t be as high as originally anticipated . on nov . 9 , dynegy originally agreed to buy enron after the emergence of damaging revelations concerning a series of deals that allowed enron executives to profit personally at the expense of the company and its shareholders . those deals are now the subject of a securities and exchange commission investigation .
while struggling to keep the planned merger alive , enron also has been seeking to extend the maturity dates of some of its borrowings . enron has a total of about $ 13 billion of debt , of which about $ 9 billion comes due by the end of next year . the company may find itself on the hook for an additional $ 7 billion in off - balance - sheet debt and another $ 3 . 9 billion in potential liabilities , related to troubled investment partnerships , if its credit rating drops to below investment grade , says mr . pellecchia , the fitch analyst . a cut to a junk - status credit rating could deal a fatal blow to enron , which needs huge sums of cheap money to keep its trading operations alive .
enron , nowadays , seems to be generating less cash from that business , which accounted for more than 90 % of its profit in the most recent quarter . in the five weeks since enron ' s problems became widely known , its trading partners have sought to protect themselves by shifting deals elsewhere from the dominant enrononline trading exchange and to limit their exposure to the houston - based company . about a week ago , enron said it had about $ 1 . 6 billion in cash , which surprised analysts who expected a number at least $ 1 billion higher given the most recent infusions from dynegy and the banks .
enron spokeswoman karen denne said the company " is continuing to meet all our obligations . " she added that trading activity at the enrononline unit had been " below average " in recent days , but that the company believes " it has stabilized . "
analysts say cash on hand doesn ' t appear to be enough to keep enron alive for long , given the reluctance of its trading partners and creditors . rebecca followill , an analyst at howard weil in houston , says that enron needs a bigger cash hoard than ever to rebuild confidence . she reckons enron needs $ 4 billion to $ 5 billion on hand while the merger deal winds its way through shareholder and regulatory approvals .
- - -
robin sidel and jathon sapsford contributed to this article .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
deals & deal makers : banks , too , have stake in enron merger - - - stature , money are both on the line
by jathon sapsford and kara scannell
staff reporters of the wall street journal
11 / 28 / 2001
the wall street journal
cl
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
as important as completing the enron corp . - dynegy inc . merger is for the two companies , it is almost as critical for the banks that have backed it .
j . p . morgan chase & co . and citigroup inc . have emerged as prominent financiers and cheerleaders behind the problem - plagued transaction , putting hundreds of millions of dollars of their own money into enron in hopes of keeping the deal alive . late yesterday , that effort continued , with the banks scrambling for new terms to avoid a credit downgrade that could scuttle the deal .
but in addition to putting their money behind the proposed merger , the two lending giants have also staked their reputations - - and perhaps even some of their prowess in the mergers - and - acquisitions business itself - - on completing this transaction .
both j . p . morgan and citigroup officials have said privately that the pending deal is a bellwether . that is because it could illustrate how big banking institutions can use their lending muscle to offer customers one - stop shopping , thus usurping business from the other , more - traditional investment - banking institutions .
because the banks offered financing to enron on short - notice to grab the advisory business , the deal has the " potential for either giving a boost to a bank ' s stature on the street or to sling some mud in its face , " said samuel hayes , professor of finance at harvard business school . " this is a high - stakes assignment . "
and an expensive one , if the deal doesn ' t happen . each bank has commitments outstanding to enron , in the form of various loans , of roughly $ 700 million to $ 800 million , according to officials familiar with the matter , and roughly half of that is in unsecured debt . the two companies , these officials say , have also committed an additional equity investment of $ 250 million each so far , though there is a possibility enron could get more .
as mergers go , the deal is relatively small , and it has gotten smaller in recent days as investors have hammered lower enron ' s stock , which at 4 p . m . yesterday stood at $ 4 . 11 , up 10 cents in composite trading on the new york stock exchange .
but on wall street , the importance of the deal goes well beyond its size , where the transaction is seen as a high - profile example of the new era of finance in which large financials exploit the crumbling walls between once - separate businesses like lending , underwriting and mergers advisory .
goldman sachs group , an investment bank that doesn ' t traditionally extend large loans to clients , was denied a piece of the merger business because it declined to extend the sort of loans that j . p . morgan and citigroup provided last week .
should this deal fall through , it will make goldman look smart . " there is a lot more to this deal for the banks than just [ mergers and advisory ] fees , " says andy collins , an analyst at u . s . bancorp piper jaffray .
it is also seen as well as a major test of the decision in 1999 to repeal depression - era laws under the gramm - leach bliley act .
for decades , the u . s . financial system effectively banned commercial banks from lending to the same clients they served as an investment bank . the thinking was that commercial banks , the federally insured guardians of deposits , shouldn ' t be betting in the securities markets with depositor money .
now with those laws repealed , some worry about risks creeping back into the system . roy smith , a business professor at new york university , says the banks ' lending to the same clients from which they seek to win securities business could encourage banks to over - lend for the purpose of closing deals .
" you can ' t believe the chairman of the bank is up at night thinking about this , " says mr . smith .
the banks , while conceding some exposure to enron , decline to confirm specific amounts , citing client confidentiality . but in private conversations , banks say they regularly sell loans to companies in which they may be too exposed in an active secondary market . moreover , they use other credit derivatives to effectively transfer the risk of loans to other investors .
some of the recent documentation of enron debt suggests that much of the debt has been diversified across many investors . in may 2001 , for example , citigroup and j . p . morgan arranged a large $ 2 . 25 billion credit facility for enron , part of the total of approximately $ 13 billio