Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 29 / 01
daschle calls for congressional investigation of enron collapse
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
enron troubles hit houston office market ; tower project delayed
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
newpower has enough cash to run through 2 nd quarter ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
txu ' s taylor comments on effect of possible enron bankruptcy
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
nymex tells members enron trades must be approved ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
enron metals close to finding a buyer , administrators say
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
german bank enron exposure between $ 9 million and $ 100 million
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
enron corp . is poised to file largest - ever bankruptcy case
bloomberg , 11 / 29 / 01
enron ' s overseas assets could complicate bankruptcy
dow jones emerging markets report , 11 / 29 / 01
usa : ice electronic energy trade soars on enron woes .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
unwind of enron derivatives could be mkt ' s biggest ever
dow jones capital markets report , 11 / 29 / 01
usa : us 10 - yr t - note up full point on weak data , enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
reliant resources says enron situation manageable and presents opportunities
pr newswire , 11 / 29 / 01
enron european counterparties largely blase on exposure
dow jones energy service , 11 / 29 / 01
usa : u . s . stocks buoyed by corporate earnings .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
enron troubles hand further ammunition to dollar bears
dow jones news service , 11 / 29 / 01
uk : uk prompt electricity dives on enron backlash .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
enron didn ' t trade on swiss power market thursday
dow jones international news , 11 / 29 / 01
us power , gas markets remain orderly despite enron exit
dow jones energy service , 11 / 29 / 01
usa : enron opens eol trade system to unwind positions .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
germany : german power jumpy , cal 02 up on enron crisis .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
europe funds ' exposure to enron limited ; many sold early
dow jones international news , 11 / 29 / 01
enron metals trading staff say bnp , coke metals , hsbc rumoured possible buyers
afx news , 11 / 29 / 01
enron said to guarantee europe pwr delivery only thu , fri
dow jones energy service , 11 / 29 / 01
usa : dynegy cites deterioration in enron operations .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
csfb : three big banks have $ 1 . 5 b loan exposure to enron
dow jones capital markets report , 11 / 29 / 01
usa : update 1 - daschle says congress needs answers on enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
enron crisis hits four japanese money mgmt funds - nikkei
dow jones international news , 11 / 29 / 01
enron bonds signal anticipated enron bankruptcy filing
dow jones capital markets report , 11 / 29 / 01
usa : nymex restricts trading with enron .
reuters english news service , 11 / 29 / 01
enron fallout continues to pressure bank sector bonds
dow jones capital markets report , 11 / 29 / 01
williams president reaffirms 2001 earnings guidance ; 15 % annual earnings growth
pr newswire , 11 / 29 / 01
daschle calls for congressional investigation of enron collapse
2001 - 11 - 29 12 : 30 ( new york )
washington , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - following are comments
made this morning by senate majority leader tom daschle when asked
about the collapse of enron corp . :
` ` we ' re certainly going to try to find answers to
the questions involving the collapse of enron . i don ' t know that
anybody knows yet just how this happened and how it happened so
quickly .
` ` i think we need to find as much information as is possible
and make some assessment about whether it ' s indicative of energy
in a larger context and if it is , what we ought to do about it .
but clearly it raises some very serious questions . ' '
enron troubles hit houston office market ; tower project delayed
2001 - 11 - 29 12 : 25 ( new york )
enron troubles hit houston office market ; tower project delayed
houston , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - trammell crow co . delayed
construction of a $ 108 million office development in downtown
houston , the first real estate project in the city to suffer the
fallout from enron ' s financial troubles .
trammell crow delayed groundbreaking on the planned 34 - story
tower until at least next year , said leah rogers , a trammell crow
spokeswoman . construction was to have started next week .
` ` given the national economic uncertainty and the uncertainty
associated with the future availability of class ` a ' space
springing from the recent events at enron , we have decided to
delay our construction start until future visibility improves , ' '
matt khourie , who heads trammell crow ' s houston development
operations , said in a statement .
enron , the largest u . s . energy trader , may have to file for
bankruptcy protection and liquidate assets after dynegy inc .
abandoned its proposed purchase of the company , investors and
analysts said . with enron expected to give most of the 3 million
square feet it occupies in houston , developers will have a harder
time filling projects , forcing rental rates down , brokers said .
about 2 million square feet of enron ' s space is in the city ' s
downtown , where trammell crow ' s ballpark place project was
planned . the project was to include apartments and retail space ,
and sit next to enron field , home to the major league baseball
team houston astros , according to the houston chronicle , which
reported the delay earlier .
houston has 4 projects under construction , including a 40 -
story , 1 . 17 - million - square - foot tower being built by enron next to
its current headquarters . the projects are mainly being built for
power companies , said peyton collins , head of property broker
insignia / esg ' s houston office .
` ` the downtown market is 5 percent vacant and if you look
five years out , with all the space that ' s coming in line , vacancy
rates could double , ' ' said collins .
other houston office projects underway include an 800 , 000 -
square - foot building in which reliant resources will lease 550 , 000
square feet , and a 600 , 000 - square - foot tower , half of which will
be occupied by calpine corp . , according to insignia .
newpower has enough cash to run through 2 nd quarter ( updatel )
2001 - 11 - 29 12 : 36 ( new york )
newpower has enough cash to run through 2 nd quarter ( updatel )
( updates with financing details in second paragraph and
enron ' s third - quarter loss on investments in sixth paragraph . )
purchase , new york , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - newpower holdings
inc . , a venture formed by enron corp . to compete with traditional
natural - gas and electric utilities , said it has enough cash and
credit to run through the second quarter .
the company is negotiating with lenders for $ 50 million for
next year and another $ 50 million in 2003 , spokeswoman gael doar
said . newpower , 44 percent owned by enron , may need money to buy
gas for winter inventories next year , she said .
newpower said a possible enron bankruptcy filing probably
won ' t affect its earnings . the purchase , new york - based company
said it can meet its credit obligations to enron and utilities and
will continue to deliver to customers .
newpower had 805 , 000 customers at the end of the third
quarter and said it expects to have 840 , 000 to 860 , 000 by the end
of the year . most electricity customers are in texas . georgia is
its largest gas market , doar said . it also has business in ohio ,
pennsylvania and elsewhere .
dynegy inc . yesterday abandoned its bid for rival enron , once
the biggest energy trader , after standard i ' m sure i can expect some of
that sort of stuff but nothing yet today . i ' m sure they ' ve got
other things to think about . ' '
nymex tells members enron trades must be approved ( updatel )
2001 - 11 - 29 12 : 47 ( new york )
nymex tells members enron trades must be approved ( updatel )
( adds margin increases in fourth - fifth paragraphs . )
new york , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - new york mercantile exchange
president j . robert collins told floor members they could not
accept orders from enron corp . unless they receive written
authorization from an exchange clearing member .
a fax from collins to member firms today said the order was
effective immediately and that it would ` ` remain in effect until
further notice from the exchange . ' '
clearing members are companies that guarantee transactions on
the exchange , which trades energy and metals futures and options .
the exchange yesterday said it will raise margins on its
natural gas and crude oil futures contracts at the close of
trading today . margins are deposits traders must make with the
exchange when buying or selling futures contracts to ensure
obligations will be met .
while the exchange gave no reason for the increase , the
decision followed a day of wide changes in natural gas prices . the
swings began after dynegy inc . abandoned plans to purchase enron ,
once the biggest gas trader . traders grew concerned that enron
might be forced into bankruptcy .
enron metals close to finding a buyer , administrators say
2001 - 11 - 29 13 : 32 ( new york )
enron metals close to finding a buyer , administrators say
london , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . ' s metals unit , one
of the biggest traders on the london metal exchange , is close to
being sold , its administrator said , an accord that would end an 18 -
month foray into markets for copper and similar products .
possible buyers include hsbc holdings plc , glencore
international ag and the current management of the company ,
traders and analysts speculated . officials at the companies
couldn ' t immediately be reached for comment .
` ` there is already very serious interest in enron ' s metal
business , and negotiations are expected to lead to a successful
deal ' ' soon , said tony lomas , a pricewaterhousecoopers
administrator for enron in europe . ` ` our primary focus will be on
the large physical assets and trading position of the group . ' '
traders and analysts have speculated that enron metals would
be sold since dynegy inc . agreed earlier this month to buy enron
corp . for $ 23 billion . after that accord collapsed yesterday , the
metals unit seemed slated for a sale , analysts said .
enron agreed to buy the business , formerly mg plc , for $ 445
million in may of last year . mg itself was the metals - trading unit
of germany ' s metallgesellschaft ag and a century - old operation
upon which that german construction , engineering and trading
company was built .
it is one of just 11 floor traders on the london metal
exchange , the world ' s biggest metals bourse . enron earned
commissions though brokering trades there , charged rent at its
warehouses owned by henry bath & son ltd . and speculated on the
direction of metals prices .
declining market
the former chief executive of metallgesellschaft , heinz
schimmelbusch , in an interview earlier this month denied
speculation that his pennsylvania - based safeguard international
fund lp was interested in buying enron or any metals - trading
operation .
hsbc , europe ' s biggest bank by market value , said last month
it ' s considering a plan to add trading of industrial metals such
as copper and aluminum to its precious - metals trading operation to
meet demand from its customers .
any interest from glencore may stem from its desire to expand
its existing operations , said mike price , head of mining and
metals at societe generale , which is itself a so - called ring
dealer , or floor trader , on the lme .
whoever buys enron metals ` ` has to be somebody pretty
substantial , ' ' price said . if the current management hopes to be
the buyer , ` ` they would need to find somebody with deep pockets . ' '
the new owner of enron metals will be entering the metals
market at a time when copper prices have declined 15 percent this
year and aluminum prices are 7 percent down as demand dropped from
users such as aircraft makers and electronics companies amid
slowing economies .
the declining prices have led n . m . rothschild & sons , a
member of the lme , to quit base metals trading and prompted
scotiamoccata , a metals - trading unit of canada ' s bank of nova
scotia to leave the lme ring .
the departure of scotiamoccata reduced the number of ring
dealers to 11 and raised doubts about the future of open - outcry
trading at the exchange . the lme is promoting less - expensive
electronic trading .
german bank enron exposure between $ 9 million and $ 100 million
2001 - 11 - 29 13 : 32 ( new york )
german bank enron exposure between $ 9 million and $ 100 million
frankfurt , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - dresdner bank ag , which is
owned by allianz ag , said its exposure to enron corp . is about
$ 100 million .
deutsche bank ag and commerzbank ag said their exposure to
enron amounts to a ` ` double - digit ' ' million euros amount .
europe ' s largest bank has an exposure ` ` significantly ' ' below
100 million euros ( $ 89 million ) , said ronald weichert , a spokesman
for deutsche bank .
commerzbank ' s exposure is more than 10 million euros and less
than 50 million euros , spokesman peter pietsch said .
dresdner expects ` ` way less ' ' than $ 100 million to default ,
and will take the appropriate loan loss reserves at the end of the
year , said spokeswoman elke pawellek .
the largest u . s . energy trader , may file for bankruptcy
protection after dynegy inc . yesterday abandoned its proposed
merger with enron , forcing enron to liquidate assets to pay some
of its $ 15 billion in publicly held debt .
enron corp . is poised to file largest - ever bankruptcy case
2001 - 11 - 29 14 : 04 ( new york )
enron corp . is poised to file largest - ever bankruptcy case
washington , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . is poised to
file the largest bankruptcy reorganization in history after dynegy
inc . scuttled plans to acquire the energy trader that is saddled
with more than $ 15 billion in debt .
enron , with less than $ 2 billion in cash as of last week ,
must pay $ 690 million to lenders by mid - december and is
responsible for another $ 3 . 9 billion in debt owed by affiliated
partnerships .
the houston - based company ' s collapse was underscored by new
restrictions on its operations . the new york mercantile exchange
barred floor members from accepting orders from enron without
special written authorization , and the company ' s internet trading
was reduced from about 30 commodities to three products .
a bankruptcy filing by enron would top texaco inc . ' s record
$ 35 . 9 billion case in 1987 , with creditors lining up to claim
what ' s left of the company ' s more than $ 61 billion in assets .
` ` it ' s a black hole , ' ' said gary hindes , managing director of
deltec asset management llc , which has no investment in enron .
` ` until the forensic accountants can get in there and sort things
out , you just don ' t know what enron ' s worth . ' '
duke energy corp . , j . p . morgan chase & co . , williams cos . and
a dozen other companies say they may lose more than $ 1 billion
combined from enron ' s collapse . electricity and natural gas
companies said enron owed them almost $ 600 million as of
yesterday .
in london , was appointed administrator
of enron ' s european holding company and some of its operating
companies , a step other companies have taken before filing chapter
11 papers in the u . s .
enron shares have lost more than $ 26 billion in market value
in the last six months .
lawyers
enron has hired the law firm weil gotshal & manges llp , which
has the nation ' s largest bankruptcy practice , and the blackstone
group lp investment banking firm . arthur newman , head of
restructuring at blackstone , said his firm was retained but
declined to comment further .
chapter 11 would let enron officials continue to control the
company while negotiating a recovery plan with creditors . a
provision of u . s . bankruptcy law automatically blocks debt -
collection efforts , lawsuits and other actions against the
company .
` ` a chapter 11 filing can be a great thing for a cash - starved
company being attacked from all sides , ' ' said nancy rapoport , dean
of the university of houston law center .
thousands affected
an enron bankruptcy would affect thousands of people ,
including the company ' s 21 , 000 employees , its customers ,
suppliers , investors and other creditors . the court - supervised
recovery process would give enron a chance to change strategies
and fix mistakes . it might take years to complete and may end in
the company ' s liquidation .
in addition to its energy trading operation , enron operates a
nationwide gas pipeline system spanning 25 , 000 miles . it also owns
portland general electric , which generates and distributes power
to about 725 , 000 customers in the pacific northwest . the company ' s
enron broadband services is building a global fiber - optic
communications network .
chapter 11 reorganization lets companies abandon onerous
contracts and unprofitable leases .
` ` every bad business deal enron got into they ' ll walk away
from , ' ' said peter chapman , a distressed - debt investor who also
publishes newsletters on high - profile bankruptcy reorganizations .
recovery
the goal in chapter 11 is a recovery plan that allows a
company to pay creditors and come out of bankruptcy . a plan
typically must be approved by a majority of creditors representing
two - thirds of a company ' s debts . then a company would ask a
bankruptcy judge for final approval .
the recovery plan divides a company ' s value among various
classes of creditors . under a hierarchy set by the u . s . bankruptcy
code , secured creditors - - those with collateral backing their
claims - - are paid ahead of unsecured creditors , such as
bondholders and suppliers .
financial advisers to creditors and companies in large
bankruptcies say a chapter 11 recovery plan for enron would be
particularly difficult to produce .
` ` you have a host of intangible assets combined with a morass
of contingent liabilities creating a potential witches ' brew of a
bankruptcy , ' ' said jeff werbalowsky of houlihan lokey howard &
zukin , an investment banking firm that has been contacted for
advice by enron bondholders .
shareholders
enron ' s shareholders are likely to lose all of their
investment in a chapter 11 case because they would be last in line
to get paid .
enron shares fell 20 cents , or 33 percent , to 41 cents in
afternoon trading . the shares traded at $ 54 . 54 on june 4 . the
company said this morning it was evaluating whether it will pay a
scheduled 12 . 5 - cent quarterly dividend on dec . 20 .
enron ' s bond prices reflect the uncertainty about the
company ' s value . the company ' s 6 . 4 percent notes that mature in
2006 were unchanged at about 22 cents on the dollar , traders said .
at that price the notes yield 53 percent .
some recovery for enron creditors in a bankruptcy case may
come from lawsuits , said russell a . belinsky , an investment banker
with chanin capital partners , which also has been approached for
advice by enron bondholders .
` ` there ' s a lot of juicy legal issues , ' ' said belinsky .
potential targets include enron ' s accounting firm and its officers
and directors .
` ` disentangling all the pieces in a reorganization is going
to be a painstaking job , ' ' he said .
liability
dynegy might face some liability for canceling its purchase
of enron . dynegy invoked terms of the buyout agreement that gave
it the right to purchase an enron natural gas pipeline if the
takeover fell apart . dynegy received the right to the pipeline in
exchange for a $ 1 . 5 billion investment in enron by chevrontexaco
corp . , which owns one - fourth of dynegy .
enron might use bankruptcy to prevent dynegy from walking
away from the buyout and claiming ownership to the pipeline .
the dynegy acquisition , valued at $ 23 billion when it was
proposed on nov . 9 , collapsed as bankers failed to raise the $ 1 . 5
billion enron needed to operate until the deal was completed . the
lack of funds and a credit downgrade contributed to dynegy ' s
decision .
bankers led by j . p . morgan chase & co . vice chairman james b .
lee tried for two weeks to raise the cash enron needed . investors
turned them down because of heightened concern enron wouldn ' t be
able to pay its debts .
three credit - rating agencies yesterday cut enron ' s credit
rating to junk status , triggering an acceleration of the company ' s
debt obligations .
unraveling
enron ' s unraveling began in october after it said
shareholders ' equity was reduced by $ 1 . 2 billion because of the
way the company accounted for outside partnerships it created . the
announcement prompted lawsuits and an investigation by the u . s .
securities and exchange commission , and enron ended up restating
earnings for almost five years .
as shares plunged , enron ' s trading partners lost confidence
the company would have the cash to pay bills . trading partners
such as mirant corp . either demanded more collateral to trade or
restricted trading with the company .
` ` the situation is dire , ' ' said deltec ' s hindes . ` ` no one ' s
going to trade with enron right now because you could wind up
being an unsecured creditor tomorrow . ' '
enron ' s overseas assets could complicate bankruptcy
by charles roth
of dow jones newswires
11 / 29 / 2001
dow jones emerging markets report
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones & company , inc . )
new york - ( dow jones ) - as enron corp . ( ene ) teeters on the edge of insolvency , its creditors , power industry players and even foreign governments are angling to lay claim to the company ' s assets .
in an example of how far the ripples are being felt , the brazilian government said thursday it ' s legally entitled to seize enron ' s assets in that country if the u . s . energy titan files for bankruptcy .
the houston - based company has more than $ 60 billion in assets , a little more than 10 % of which are considered " non - core " or located overseas . indeed , of enron ' s 10 , 453 megawatts in total power production , 8339 mw are generated internationally .
as it established a presence in dozens of countries , enron also diversified into oil and gas exploration and production , power generation , and even non - energy related businesses such as forest products , metals and steel , broadband and credit evaluation systems .
although enron ' s non - core and global forays haven ' t on the whole been profitable , there is value in some of the hard assets .
and while it ' s not clear whether or how claims by foreign governments on enron assets would be honored , it ' s certain the company ' s myriad overseas holdings will further addle what would likely be a vastly complex bankruptcy proceeding .
the following is an overview of a number of those holdings outside the north american continent , according to some of the most recent data provided by the company , which didn ' t , however , specify the extent of its equity interests or operational control in the majority of the assets listed .
approximately 70 % of enron ' s assets outside north america and europe are located in central and south america and the caribbean :
- - - brazil : enron controls electricity distributor elektro eletricidade e servico sa ( e . eko ) , which was acquired in 1998 for brrl . 479 billion ( $ 1 = brr 2 . 48 ) . it also owns two gas - fired thermoelectric plants : eletrobolt , with a capacity of 380 megawatts , and cuiaba , with a 480 - mw capacity .
enron also owns important stakes in natural gas distributor companhia distribuidora de gas do rio de janeiro ( e . cdr ) , or ceg , and its smaller unit ceg - rio .
in late april , brazil ' s oil giant petroleo brasileiro ( pbr ) , or petrobras , agreed to pay $ 240 million for the stake enron owns in ceg . petrobras agreed to buy the 25 . 38 % stake the u . s . energy group owns in ceg as well as the 33 . 75 % stake enron has in ceg - rio . the deal is still seen closing in the next few days .
- - - puerto rico : enron has been poised to sell in the weeks ahead a 49 % interest in the 507 mw ecoelectrica power plant and liquified natural gas terminal for about $ 250 million .
it ' s also involved in a 20 , 000 metric ton liquefied petroleum gas storage terminal and the san juan gas distribution company , which has a capacity to carry approximately 400 , 000 cubic feet a day .
- - - bolivia : enron is an operator on the bolivian side of the 3 , 000 kilometer bolivia - to - brazil natural gas pipeline , and holds a small 4 % interest on the brazilian side .
- - - argentina : enron has an interest in transportadora de gas del sur , a 5 , 005 kilometer pipeline .
- - - venezuela : enron , in cooperation with vengas , is involved in a leading transporter and distributor of lpg , among other assets .
- - - colombia : enron has stakes in the centragas pipeline , a 578 km natural gas transmission system , and promigas , a top natural gas company .
- - - panama : enron holds a 355 mw electricity generation plant .
- - - guatemala : enron has two power plants with combined generating capacity of 234 mw .
- - - dominican republic : enron has a 185 mw power facility .
the company also has a sizeable footprint in asia , particularly in india :
- - - india : about 14 % of enron ' s international assets are located in india , home to its mammoth $ 3 billion dabhol power project , which has a generation capacity of 2184 mw .
enron is also poised to sell its offshore india oil 201 - 938 - 2226 ; charles . roth @ dowjones . com
( geoffrey smith in london contributed to this article . )
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
usa : ice electronic energy trade soars on enron woes .
11 / 29 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
new york , nov 29 ( reuters ) - the intercontinental exchange ( ice ) , an atlanta - based electronic energy and metals marketplace , said on thursday that trade on its system in late november was up 65 percent from october .
ice has been setting new trading records in recent weeks , as concerns over energy trader enron corp . ' s crumbling credit rating diverted on - line business to the exchange .
enron suspended operations of enrononline , ice ' s main rival for internet - based trading , on wednesday after standard & poor ' s cut enron ' s credit rating to " junk " status , killing a potential takeover by dynegy inc . .
enron , which said it has no plans to permanently dismantle its electronic trading system , said it reopened enrononline thursday to allow parties to unwind outstanding positions .
until this month , enron was by far the nation ' s largest trader in north american natural gas and electricity , with industry analysts estimating it was involved in some 25 percent of all daily trade in those markets .
in addition to increased volumes , ice has also seen a big jump in the number of users tapping into the system , up 30 percent from october , the exchange said in a statement .
" over the past couple of weeks we have experienced an increase in total volumes and registered users , " said jeffrey sprecher , chief executive officer of ice .
" we believe the inherent credit concerns in the otc ( over - the - counter ) market have spawned interest in a many - to - many trading platform as opposed to a one - to - many platform .
sprecher also said ice would continue to look for ways to expand its trading platform to accommodate new participants .
as an open - access marketplace , intercontinental exchange now has over 400 commodity trading firms participating .
the ice electronic trading system is now installed on over 7 , 500 desktops worldwide , a 7 percent gain in the past two weeks .
products traded on ice include natural gas , power , crude oil and refined products , precious metals and emissions allowances .
intercontinental exchange has offices in new york , houston , chicago , london and singapore and is owned by over 100 energy and metals traders , brokers and bankers .
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
unwind of enron derivatives could be mkt ' s biggest ever
by joe niedzielski
of dow jones newswires
11 / 29 / 2001
dow jones capital markets report
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , dow jones joe . niedzielski @ dowjones . com
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
usa : us 10 - yr t - note up full point on weak data , enron .
11 / 29 / 2001
reuters english news service
( c ) reuters limited 2001 .
new york , nov 29 ( reuters ) - u . s . benchmark 10 - year notes soared more than a full point on thursday as a broad treasury market rally on hopes for another federal reserve rate cut extended amid concerns the beleaguered energy - trading company enron will soon file for bankruptcy .
enron corp . stood at the abyss of bankruptcy on thursday , as its european arm filed for creditor protection and creditors assessed their exposure to one of the world ' s biggest - ever corporate collapses .
" it looks like enron is going to file bankruptcy , " said jim claire , head of fixed income trading at evergreen institutional asset management in charlotte , north carolina . " this is kind of a flight to quality . "
an early report showing a spike in weekly jobless claims in the past week highlighted the frail u . s . economy , boosting market expectations that the fed will cut interest rates for the 11 th time this year at its policy meeting on december 11 .
at 1 : 13 p . m . ( 1813 gmt ) , two - year notes were up 8 / 32 to 100 - 1 / 32 , yielding 2 . 96 percent . five - year notes climbed 22 / 32 to 97 - 3 / 32 , yielding 4 . 15 percent . benchmark 10 - year notes were up 30 / 32 to 101 - 14 / 32 , yielding 4 . 81 percent . thirty - year bonds were up 1 - 15 / 32 to 101 - 24 / 32 , yielding 5 . 26 percent .
.
copyright ? 2000 dow jones & company , inc . all rights reserved .
reliant resources says enron situation manageable and presents opportunities
11 / 29 / 2001
pr newswire
( copyright ( c ) 2001 , pr newswire )
houston , nov . 29 / prnewswire / - - reliant resources , inc . ( nyse : rri ) today announced that it is confident that the wholesale energy markets will work through the implications caused by enron ' s recent credit rating downgrade . because the deterioration in enron ' s credit position has occurred over a period of weeks , the market and reliant resources have had opportunities to prepare for such an event . reliant resources ' current exposure to enron is approximately $ 80 million , primarily from power sales from the company ' s asset portfolio and natural gas sales from its trading portfolio .
reliant resources has already seen additional market opportunities as a result of the situation and is increasing its efforts to serve new and existing customers .
reliant resources , based in houston , texas , provides electricity and energy services to wholesale and retail customers in the u . s . and europe , marketing those services under the reliant energy brand name . the company has nearly 18 , 000 megawatts of power generation capacity in operation , under construction or advanced development , or under contract in the u . s . reliant resources is one of only five companies to rank among both the ten largest power marketers and the ten largest natural gas marketers in north america . the company also has wholesale trading and marketing operations and nearly 3 , 500 megawatts of power generation in operation in western europe . at the retail level , reliant resources provides energy services and will serve approximately 1 . 7 million customers in texas when the electricity market opens to full retail competition in january 2002 . reliant resources currently is a majority - owned subsidiary of reliant energy ( nyse : rei ) .
this news release includes forward - looking statements . actual events and results may differ materially from those projected . factors that could affect actual results include the timing and impact of future regulatory and legislative decisions , changes in reliant resources ' business plans , financia