Subject: enron mentions - 11 / 30 / 01
enron to fire 95 % of staff after bankruptcy filing , cnbc says
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron says cnbc report of layoffs is incorrect ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
andersen ' s enron audit prompts tighter ` peer review ' of quality
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron ' s fall to spark legal wrangles over derivatives ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron ' s legal woes to make bankruptcy case complex ,
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron might raise $ 610 mln in brazil asset sale , analysts say
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
bush spokesman fleischer comments on enron corp . ' s collapse
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron ' s board was compromised by financial ties ( correct )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enrononline resumes some commodity product trading ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
agl resources ends services contract with enron ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
arthur andersen ' s enron audit is under review by sec ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron fires u . k . workers , plans bankruptcy soon ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron creditors list potential losses from energy trader ' s fall
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
dynegy says pipeline option not dependent on enron ( update 8 )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron bankruptcy case would take years to resolve ( update 2 )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
chairman says dynegy ' s right to enron pipeline indisputable
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
williams has withdrawn pipeline capacity from enron ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
new jersey has limited exposure to enron decline , treasury says
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
wall street firms , pension funds face enron losses ( update 6 )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
s & p says credit derivative exposure to enron totals $ 6 . 3 bln
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron ' s fall to spark legal wrangles over derivatives ( updatel )
bloomberg , 11 / 30 / 01
enron to fire 95 % of staff after bankruptcy filing , cnbc says
2001 - 11 - 30 17 : 40 ( new york )
houston , nov . 30 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . will file for
bankruptcy monday or tuesday and fire 95 percent of its staff ,
financial news network cnbc reported , citing an unnamed employee .
the employee said a vice president told his workers that
enron would take the steps next week and give the employees two
weeks of severance pay for every year of service at the company ,
cnbc said .
enron says cnbc report of layoffs is incorrect ( updatel )
2001 - 11 - 30 17 : 59 ( new york )
( adds in third paragraph that enron says cnbc report is
false . )
houston , nov . 30 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . will file for
bankruptcy monday or tuesday and fire 95 percent of its staff ,
financial news network cnbc reported , citing an unnamed employee .
the employee said a vice president told his workers that
enron would take the steps next week and give the employees two
weeks of severance pay for every year of service at the company ,
cnbc said .
enron will not fire 95 percent of its workforce and has made
no announcement to workers on layoffs , company spokesman vance
meyer said . no decision has been made on whether the company will
make a bankruptcy filing , meyer said .
andersen ' s enron audit prompts tighter ` peer review ' of quality
2001 - 11 - 30 17 : 27 ( new york )
andersen ' s enron audit prompts tighter ` peer review ' of quality
washington , nov . 30 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . ' s accounting
firm , arthur andersen llp , will undergo tougher scrutiny in the
` ` peer review ' ' process in which u . s . audit firms police one
another ' s quality - control standards .
andersen , the fifth - largest accounting firm , said it asked
its peer reviewer , deloitte & touche llp , for the additional
scrutiny in light of financial reporting issues at enron ,
according to an andersen press release . deloitte & touche had
independently determined that it wanted to conduct additional
procedures , the release said .
` ` in light of recent developments , we believe that extending
the peer review to include work done in other offices , including
houston , and other procedures that deloitte & touche deems
appropriate and necessary is the right thing to do , ' ' andersen
chief executive joseph berardino said in the release .
the peer review is due on dec . 31 . andersen ' s last review by
deloitte & touche , the third - largest accounting and consulting
firm , was in 1998 . the review did not report any significant
problems .
the sec is examining whether andersen acted properly in
audits of energy provider enron , which is also under investigation
by the sec . andersen has acknowledged that the sec has subpoenaed
documents related to houston - based enron , which is on the brink of
bankruptcy after saying it had overstated earnings .
andersen ' s announcement comes as the public oversight board ,
an accounting industry oversight group , plans to look at the
adequacy of the peer review system amid concerns about the failed
enron audits . the system calls for audit firms to periodically
submit their reports on public companies for examination by other
accounting firms , in an effort to assure investors the firm ' s
methods comply with professional standards .
enron , the largest energy trader , this month said it
overstated earnings by $ 586 million over four - and - a - half years ,
inflated shareholder equity by $ 1 . 2 billion because of an
accounting error , and failed to consolidate results of three
affiliated partnerships into its balance sheet .
andersen was enron ' s outside auditor for more than a decade ,
assuring investors that the company ' s financial statements
conformed with generally accepted accounting principles
u . s . representative john dingell , a michigan democrat ,
questioned the peer review process recently in a letter to the
public oversight board . none of the five biggest international
accounting firms has ever issued a negative peer - review report
against another , dingell said . the so - called big five also include
 llc , kpmg llp , and ernst & young lp .
` ` there appears to be little reason for the public to have
faith in andersen or the peer review process , ' ' dingell wrote .
andersen responded that it has faith in the accounting
profession ' s self - regulatory process , which the pob oversees .
a spokeswoman at deloitte & touche didn ' t return a telephone
call seeking comment .
enron ' s fall to spark legal wrangles over derivatives ( updatel )
2001 - 11 - 30 11 : 24 ( new york )
enron ' s fall to spark legal wrangles over derivatives ( updatel )
( rewrites 2 nd paragraph . )
london , nov . 30 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . ' s plunge toward
bankruptcy may spark legal wrangles over how to unravel the web of
derivatives contracts tied to the energy company .
enron is set to file for protection in the biggest chapter 11
reorganization ever . that ' s likely to mean the energy trader can ' t
pay on derivatives it sold as insurance against default by other
borrowers , as well as defaulting on its own debts and triggering
similar contracts bought by its creditors .
` ` if i traded with joe bloggs down the road , and enron owed
him a lot of money and he couldn ' t get it so he went into
bankruptcy , then he wouldn ' t fulfill his obligations under my
contract , ' ' said brian senior , head of trading at innogy holdings
plc , the u . k . ' s top electricity supplier . ` ` i don ' t think the
major risk is market liquidity , i think it ' s the domino effect . ' '
enron used derivatives - - financial instruments such as
futures and options whose value is based on other assets - - to
insure against price swings or take bets on a price ' s direction .
the houston - based company had revenue of $ 1 . 9 billion from
derivatives trading last year , more than double the $ 765 million
in 1999 , making it one of the largest traders , according to swaps
monitor publications inc .
by comparison , williams cos . , the no . 2 u . s . natural - gas
pipeline owner , had revenue of $ 1 . 29 billion on derivatives
trading in 2000 .
paul spraos , president of swaps monitor , a research company
that compiles trading figures , said enron only posts derivatives
statistics once a year so there are no figures for 2001 .
dynegy inc . abandoned its planned merger with enron on
wednesday , leaving it with more than $ 15 billion of debt and the
possibility of bankruptcy . as well as oil and gas futures , enron
trades derivatives based on such things as weather and information -
transmission capacity , known as bandwidth .
banned from trading
spraos estimates that as of sept . 30 , enron owed $ 18 . 7
billion on derivatives trades that went sour , though he said that
doesn ' t take into account the collateral enron probably posted to
back up the trades .
the european energy exchange today banned enron from trading
its products , while australian regulators barred the company ' s
finance unit , enron australia pty , from trading electricity
futures because its funding wasn ' t assured .
u . s . senate and house committees will investigate enron ' s
decline and consider new regulations for electricity and natural -
gas trading . the securities and exchange commission is also
examining the company .
enron had $ 201 billion worth of derivatives on oil , gas and
electricity at the end of last year , swaps monitor has reported .
that ' s measuring the notional amount , the face value of the
securities on which the derivatives are based .
` quantifying it '
` ` everyone will be looking at their exposure , whether they ' ve
got collateral , and quantifying it , ' ' said robert g . pickel , chief
executive officer of the international swaps and derivatives
association .
isda , a new york - based trade association representing more
than 550 companies that trade derivatives , designed the legal
contracts typically used in derivatives transactions . pickel said
those contracts are designed to address such situations .
` ` there are two potential issues relating to isda
documentation , as a result of the situation regarding enron , ' '
pickel said . the first involves companies that have entered
derivatives trades with enron using isda ' s standard contract ,
known as the master agreement . the second concerns banks that have
provided credit protection on enron in the form of a credit -
default swap , also using isda documents .
credit - default swaps work like insurance on a company ' s bonds
or loans . they pay out if there ' s a bankruptcy , default , debt
restructuring or similar occurrence , known as a credit event .
` ` if there ' s a bankruptcy filing there ' s no question it would
be a credit event , ' ' pickel said .
` can ' t tell '
enron ' s u . k . units are in administration , which has triggered
what lawyers define as a credit event , said simon firth , head of
the credit derivatives practice at linklaters & alliance , which is
acting for , the accountant for enron ' s
european arm .
` ` the documents are fairly robust , and we ' ve been through
issues before , ' ' firth said . he said that while ` ` each time the
documentation gets strengthened , you can ' t tell what happens until
you look at the individual cases . ' '
enron owes almost two dozen energy companies about $ 700
million . j . p . morgan , the bank that advised enron in the failed
merger with dynegy , said it was owed $ 500 million for unsecured
loans . canadian imperial bank of commerce was owed $ 215 million in
loans and credit derivatives .
in europe , abn amro may set aside $ 97 . 5 million to cover its
enron exposure . the energy company owes abbey national plc $ 164
million , and dresdner bank ag said its exposure is about $ 100
million .
` ` this one has left every head shaking , and people are
wondering how to organize by class of creditor and how to hire
counsel , ' ' said glenn reynolds , an analyst at creditsights inc . in
new york . ` ` lawyers are high - fiving . ' '
enron ' s legal woes to make bankruptcy case complex ,
2001 - 11 - 30 12 : 41 ( new york )
enron ' s legal woes to make bankruptcy case complex ,
houston , nov . 30 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . ' s legal problems ,
one reason for the collapse of the world ' s largest energy trader ,
would add to the complexity of a bankruptcy filing and might take
years to resolve , experts say .
with dynegy inc . having withdrawn a proposed $ 23 billion
takeover offer , enron is weighing what would be the largest
bankruptcy in history and may go to court within a week . enron
shareholders , employees and business partners are lining up to sue
the houston - based company after its shares lost $ 26 billion in
value since mid - october .
enron restated $ 586 million in earnings because of accounting
irregularities , and questions surfaced about conflicts of interest
among some of the company ' s executives . the u . s . securities and
exchange commission is investigating the company , and that
wouldn ' t be affected by a bankruptcy filing .
` ` there are so many legal tentacles to this thing it ' s
scary , ' ' said chuck tatelbaum , former vice president for research
at the american bankruptcy institute . ` ` we could be talking about
a six - year bankruptcy case here . ' '
lawsuits seeking damages from a company under chapter 11 are
pulled into the bankruptcy case and judgments or settlements are
converted into bankruptcy claims .
fraud claims
among the suits likely to be included in a bankruptcy case
are claims by shareholders that the company misled investors about
its financial health . another category would be allegations that
enron executives improperly prevented workers from moving 401 ( k )
investments out of the company ' s stock .
enron probably would face accusations it broke energy trading
contracts . the agreements , known as derivatives , were used as
insurance against price swings in the energy market . with the
company poised to file for chapter 11 , it is expected to miss
payments under the contracts .
there ' s also the developing battle between enron and dynegy
over the failed buyout bid that might end up in bankruptcy court .
that might lead a bankruptcy judge to take a look at the
recent court case involving tyson foods inc . and ibp inc . , a beef
producer . a judge in delaware ordered tyson to complete its buyout
of ibp after their proposed combination collapse . tyson , like
dynegy , had said it wasn ' t fully informed about ibp ' s financial
problems when it negotiated to acquire the beef producer .
dynegy said today it plans to take over enron ' s northern
natural gas co . pipeline unit next month . dynegy said it ' s
entitled to the pipeline under the terms of its nov . 9 merger
agreement that gave it $ 1 . 5 billion in preferred stock in northern
natural gas .
enron could sue as part of the bankruptcy case to stop dynegy
from walking away from the buyout and claiming ownership to the
pipeline .
complications
any chapter 11 cases would be ` ` inordinately complicated , ' '
said lynn lopucki , a law professor at the university of california
at los angeles .
the largest bankruptcy on record is texaco ' s $ 35 . 9 billion
filing in 1987 . enron lists $ 61 billion in assets .
other big companies , like w . r . grace & co . and sgl carbon
inc . , used bankruptcy filings to manage lawsuits , said ken
eckstein , a new york attorney who handles bankruptcy litigation .
w . r . grace , a financially healthy chemical maker , filed for
chapter 11 protection in april to cope with asbestos - related
lawsuits . sgl carbon is the u . s . unit of a german company with a
market value of more than $ 1 . 2 billion that makes products used in
steel production . sgl filed bankruptcy papers in 1999 to dispose
of customers ' suits over price - fixing claims .
what sets enron apart are the questions about its financial
viability , eckstein said . he represented customers suing sgl as
part of the bankruptcy case .
` ` here , you have a fundamentally broken company , ' ' eckstein
said . ` ` it may never emerge from bankruptcy . ' '
that makes it tougher to gauge how much other creditors
might recover , he said .
` makes me mad '
enron investors aren ' t optimistic about the future of the
company ' s shares .
` ` i took at least a 60 percent hit on them , ' ' said jim
anders , a columbia , south carolina , lawyer who has sold shares .
` ` it really makes me mad . i ' d like to get my hands on some of
those executives who were doing the insider deals . that really
shook people ' s confidence in the company . ' '
enron ' s fall was accelerated by questions about some
partnerships the company used to move assets and debt off the
company ' s books . many investors had complained enron ' s financial
reports hid the significance of the partnerships .
enron ' s former chief financial officer andrew fastow led some
of the partnerships and earned more than $ 30 million through their
dealings with enron , the company disclosed . fastow and other
executives later were fired over their connection to the
partnerships .
anders acknowledged that bankruptcy law puts shareholders and
litigants at the back of the repayment line .
` ` i know we ' ve had it and aren ' t going to get squat back , ' '
anders said . ` ` the company led us to believe enron was as solid as
ge or one of the big banks . now the bank is busted . ' '
enron might raise $ 610 mln in brazil asset sale , analysts say
2001 - 11 - 30 13 : 24 ( new york )
enron might raise $ 610 mln in brazil asset sale , analysts say
sao paulo , nov . 30 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . may be able to
raise as much as $ 610 million from the sale of assets in brazil ,
including two power plants and stakes in two gas distributors ,
analysts and investors said .
the u . s . energy trader , which is on the brink of bankruptcy ,
also might reduce the $ 700 million price tag on its 99 percent
stake in power distributor elektro - eletricidade e servicos sa that
it has tried to sell for more than a year , analysts said .
` ` they would sell those assets to make a quick buck , ' ' said
marcos severine , a power utility analyst at sudameris corretora .
about 56 percent of enron ' s $ 6 . 5 billion of overseas assets
were in south america , most in brazil , as of june 30 . enron said
it currently plans no change to its operations in the country .
the u . s . company is expected to file for bankruptcy
protection in the biggest chapter 11 reorganization in history ,
which may force the company to sell assets to pay about $ 15
billion of debt . dynegy inc . this week abandoned its proposed
merger with enron . enron , which had less than $ 2 billion of cash
as of last week , has more than $ 61 billion in assets .
enron may fetch as much as $ 190 million from the sale of
eletrobolt , a 380 - megawatt power plant , and $ 220 million from
riogen , another power plant , severine said . both are based in rio
de janeiro .
gas companies
enron also may be able to raise $ 200 million from the sale of
stakes in two natural gas distributors , said a spokesman for
petros , the employee pension fund of petroleo brasileiro , which is
bidding for one of the companies . brazilian energy regulators
already have approved the sale , though it still requires backing
from antitrust regulators .
if enron tries again to sell elektro , it may be required to
offer the company to the federal government at a discount or to
another private company , analysts said . the country ' s regulations
aren ' t clear , they said .
regulatory approval may delay any sale of assets in brazil .
in addition , price controls in brazil ' s power industry will limit
the amount of money enron will be able to raise from the sales ,
analysts said .
investors are demanding lower prices for power companies in
brazil after electricity rationing and price controls over the
past two years cut earnings of power distributors and generators ,
analysts said . elektro has posted losses for six quarters .
venezuela , mexico
a bankruptcy filing by enron would probably result in the
cancellation of its investment plans in venezuela , latin
america ' s largest oil and natural gas producer , analysts said .
enron had been slated to invest three - quarters of the $ 700
million needed to build a liquid natural gas processing plant with
state oil company petroleos de venezuela sa .
pdvsa officials declined to comment on whether the plant ,
which would cool natural gas until it liquefies , would go on with
a new partner .
enron , which also owns a small venezuelan power company ,
pulled out of exploration in 2000 from an offshore block in the
gulf of paria between venezuela and trinidad and tobago .
enron also has smaller investments in mexico , argentina and
colombia . enron holds 20 percent of a joint venture building a
$ 189 million power plant in monterrey , mexico .
tractebel sa took an 80 percent share in the project in
november .
colombia
enron and promigas sa , a colombian natural gas pipeline
operator , each have a 50 percent stake in centrogas sa , a natural
gas pipeline that transports about 400 million cubic feet of gas a
day about 900 kilometers from the northern guajira peninsula to
barrancabermeja , the main oil refining city in central colombia .
the gas is produced at an offshore field operated by texaco .
officials at promigas weren ' t available for comment .
enron closed its administrative office in colombia about
three months ago , leaving an attorney to represent it in colombia .
enron ' s argentine assets include azurix buenos aires sa , a
natural gas and water utility , and shares in transportadora de gas
del sur sa .
perez companc , which owns shares in transportadora , is
prohibited by law from increasing its stake in the distribution
company .
` ` if the law is modified , then yes , we would consider it , ' '
said mario grandinetti , head of perez companc ' s institutional
relations . ` ` but there are also economic issues to consider . '
bush spokesman fleischer comments on enron corp . ' s collapse
2001 - 11 - 30 14 : 48 ( new york )
washington , nov . 30 ( bloomberg ) - - following are comments
from white house press secretary ari fleischer on the collapse of
enron corp . , which faces the biggest bankruptcy ever . the energy
committees in the senate and house have said they ' ll investigate
the collapse and consider new regulations for electricity and
natural - gas trading .
` ` the president understands that congress at all times should
exercise its proper oversight roles . that includes anything that ,
in a case like this , the senate sees fit , in terms of an
investigation into the collapse of a company . that ' s the purview
of the congress , ' ' fleischer said .
` ` as i indicated , the federal government , the administration ,
is already doing that . the department of treasury and other
entities are monitoring it . so i think we ' re all looking with the
same cause of concern . ' '
enron ' s board was compromised by financial ties ( correct )
2001 - 11 - 30 15 : 01 ( new york )
enron ' s board was compromised by financial ties ( correct )
( corrects percentage of natco group sales that went to enron
to 0 . 16 percent in 25 th paragraph , and adds that sales are within
council of institutional investors standards in 26 th paragraph . )
new york , nov . 29 ( bloomberg ) - - enron corp . plunged from the
largest energy trader to the verge of bankruptcy under a board of
directors whose independence was undercut by financial ties to
management , according to corporate governance experts .
enron gave seven of its 14 directors consulting contracts ,
sales to their business or donations to their non - profit
institutions , according to company and public records . the
recipients include three members of enron ' s audit committee , which
is responsible for financial oversight .
lord john wakeham , for example , a former leader of the
british house of commons , sits on the audit committee . enron gave
him a $ 72 , 000 - a - year consulting contract . john mendelsohn ,
president of the md anderson cancer center in houston , is also on
the audit committee . in the last five years , enron and its
chairman kenneth lay have donated $ 567 , 900 to the cancer center .
` ` to get on a board you have to be ` clubbable , ' but this
looks like collegiality turning to cronyism , ' ' said allan
cleveland , counsel to the new hampshire retirement system , an
enron shareholder .
enron , based in houston handled almost a quarter of all
natural gas and electricity trades . during the past seven weeks ,
its board has presided over a $ 26 billion drop in market value
that began after the company wrote down $ 1 . 2 billion in
shareholder equity and reported it had overstated earnings by $ 586
million since 1997 .
responsibility
as enron ' s shares fell , the company suffered a cash crunch .
it sought an infusion of capital and agreed to be acquired by
dynegy inc . , a houston - based rival . that plan collapsed yesterday
as investors balked at investing $ 1 . 5 billion , prompting dynegy to
withdraw its offer . enron shares today fell another 39 percent , or
24 cents , to 37 cents per share . the stock began the year trading
at $ 83 . 125 .
corporate boards are responsible for protecting shareholder
interests by reviewing the work of top executives . to accomplish
that , two - thirds of a board should be ` ` independent ' ' from
management , according to the council of institutional investors ,
which represents pension funds .
independence
the council defines an independent director as ` ` a person
whose directorship constitutes his or her only connection to the
corporation . ' '
` ` consulting contracts , donations to non - profit organizations
linked to directors , this eats away at independence , ' ' said ann
yergen , the council ' s director of research .
corporate governance standards established by the new york
and nasdaq stock exchanges say all audit committee members should
be independent .
enron board members , including wakeham and mendelsohn ,
declined repeated requests for interviews . vance meyer , a company
spokesman , said enron could not immediately respond to questions
regarding the board .
enron ' s board met nine times in 2000 , with each member
receiving annual compensation of $ 79 , 000 in cash and stock . every
member attended at least 75 percent of the meetings , except ronnie
chan , chief executive of the hang lung group , a hong kong
development business , according to company filings .
relationships
based on enron proxy statements and other documents , the
following relationships existed between enron and board members :
- - robert a . belfer , 65 , has been on the board since 1983 and
sits on the executive committee . he is enron ' s largest individual
shareholder , with 8 . 5 million shares , and is chairman and chief
executive of belco oil & gas corp . , which operates from an office
overlooking new york ' s central park . in 2000 , belco had $ 32
million in trade settlements and $ 1 million in option premiums
with enron trade resources corp . , an enron subsidiary .
- - john urquhart , 72 , a former general electric co .
executive , sat on the board until last may . he received an annual
consulting fee from enron of almost $ 200 , 000 a year as a special
adviser to the enron chairman .
- - mendelsohn , 64 , is a physician who was formerly head of
medicine at memorial sloan - kettering cancer center in new york . he
pioneered research in controlling cancer through the chemistry of
a tumor ' s growth and was on president george w . bush ' s short list
to head the national institutes of health . since 1996 , mendelsohn
has been president of the m . d . anderson cancer center , part of the
university of texas health system .
donations
mendelsohn joined enron ' s board in 1999 . enron has donated
$ 221 , 650 to the cancer center . lay and a foundation he established
with his wife , the linda and ken lay family foundation , have
donated $ 346 , 250 in the last five years . the enron foundation
pledged $ 1 . 5 million for a new clinic .
- - charles lemaistre , 77 , headed the anderson cancer center
for 18 years until retiring in 1996 . he has been an enron board
member for 16 years , is a member of the executive committee and
chairs the compensation committee . that panel awarded lay a $ 20
million - a - year severance package that he renounced two weeks ago .
- - wendy gramm , 56 , has held positions at the federal trade
commission and the u . s . office of management and budget and was
chairman of the u . s . commodity futures trading commission . she is
director of regulatory studies at the mercatus center of george
mason university in fairfax , virginia . she is married to phil
gramm , a u . s . republican senator from texas .
in the last three years , enron and the ken and linda lay
family foundation have donated more than $ 50 , 000 to the university
and the mercatus center , according to university records .
consulting fee
- - wakeham , 68 , a chartered accountant and self - made
millionaire , became a force in the government of former u . k . prime
minister margaret thatcher . he was known as her ` ` mr . fix - it . ' ' he
was the target of an irish republican army bomb in 1984 that
killed his wife and left him buried under rubble for seven hours .
enron pays wakeham $ 6 , 000 a month to advise the company on
european business .
- - herbert s . winokur jr . , 57 , is the managing partner of
capricorn investors lp , a holding company that owns natco group
inc . , a maker of oil and gas production equipment .
an enron board member since 1985 , winokur serves on the
executive committee , chairs the finance committee and was
appointed to a special committee created to look into how enron
was managed .
in 2000 , natco had $ 370 , 294 in sales to enron subsidiaries ,
0 . 16 percent of sales .
` ` business between companies linked to board members ought to
be discouraged , ' ' said yergen of the council of institutional
investors . still , natco ' s sales fall within the group ' s
recommended standards . ` ` we think that anything over 1 percent is
compromising , ' ' yergen said .
enron said in a proxy statement it believes the terms of the
sales were ` ` no less favorable than the terms of similar
arrangements with third parties . ' '
audit committee
enron ' s audit committee poses particular problems , according
to corporate governance experts . the committee is composed of
wakeham , mendelsohn , gramm , chan , robert jaedicke , a retired
stanford university business school dean , and paulo ferraz
pereira , a brazilian banker .
wakeham , gramm and mendelsohn are not independent , according
to corporate governance experts and standards .
` ` for the audit committee , you don ' t even want the appearance
of a conflict , ' ' said charles drott , a forensic accountant who has
testified as an expert witness in bankruptcy and business fraud
cases involving companies such as delorean motor co . and lincoln
savings & loan association .
the committee is spread across the globe , with wakeham in
london , ferraz in rio de janeiro and chan in hong kong .
` ` the question is why this committee ? ' ' drott asked . ` ` for a
big sophisticated company like enron , why did they choose these
people ? ' '
swift descent
enron ' s rapid decline - - standard & poor ' s corp . slashed its
credit rating eight levels this month to junk status - - centered
on its dealings with partnerships the company used to move assets
and debt off the company ' s books . many investors had complained
enron ' s financial reports obscured the partnerships ' businesses to
the point they were impossible to understand . enron ' s former chief
financial officer andrew fastow led some of the partnerships and
earned more than $ 30 million through their dealings with enron ,
the company disclosed .
enron documents filed with the u . s . securities and exchange
commission state that the board determined that fastow ' s
participation in the partnerships would ` ` not adversely affect the
interests of enron . ' ' the documents also say the board approved
all transactions involving partnerships that were brought to it by
lay and other enron executives .
` ` 